The Project Gutenberg eBook of Music as a human need, by Alma Webster
Powell

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you will
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this eBook.

Title: Music as a human need A plea for free national instruction in
music

Author: Alma Webster Powell

Release Date: November 12, 2022 \[eBook #69337\]

Language: English

Produced by: The Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made
available by The Internet Archive)

\*\*\* START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MUSIC AS A HUMAN NEED \*\*\*

                         Music as a Human Need

                A PLEA FOR FREE NATIONAL INSTRUCTION IN
                                MUSIC.

                                  BY

               Alma Webster Powell, A.M., Mus.B., LL.B.

          Submitted in Partial Fulfilment of the Requirements
                For the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy
                                in the
                     Faculty of Political Science
                         Columbia University.

                               NEW YORK
                                 1914




           This work is gratefully dedicated to my husband,
                         Mr. A. Judson Powell


                Copyright, 1914, by Alma Webster Powell




                           TABLE OF CONTENTS


                                                                    PAGE

Preface 5-17

PART I.--THE THESIS.

CHAPTER I.

Music as a Human Need 19

CHAPTER II.

Music and Motion 31

CHAPTER III.

Group and Individual Reaction to Music 41

CHAPTER IV.

Toneurology: A New Branch of Study 56

PART II.--THE INTER-REACTIONS OF MUSIC AND NATIONAL LIFE.

CHAPTER V.

Italy (1800-1913) 61

CHAPTER VI.

England (1800-1913) 68

CHAPTER VII.

Germany (1800-1913) 71

CHAPTER VIII.

France (1800-1913) 81

CHAPTER IX.

United States (1800-1913) 91

APPENDICES.

Appendix A.--Questionnaire 97

Appendix B.--Sources of Statistical Material 99

Appendix C.--Tabulation of Foreign State Subventions 101

Appendix D.--Notes on the Tabulation of Foreign State Subventions 103

Appendix E.--Communications 112

Appendix F.--Bibliography 138

Vita 143

Index 144

                                PREFACE

It will be observed that in the following pages political and economic
events are presented in their aspect of emotion-producing forces in
social pressure, with but scant attention to their other values. An
artificially selective process must also be acknowledged in that, of
those events only such as seem to have produced a direct emotional
reaction upon a people have been considered. Those long continued
economic movements which produced no sudden changes have not been taken
into account, because what may be termed their disturbing effects were
too gradual to allow of their being included among specific
emotion-making forces\[1\]; slow changes are not sensed by whole
peoples. Uneducated masses, especially, do not become conscious of
progressive movements until their effects are so apparent as to require
consideration by reason of aroused emotional reaction. The history of a
slow transition, therefore, may be for the scientific purposes of this
investigation unimportant as compared with the somewhat dislocated
perturbance, which resulted at the moment when the events under
consideration were happening, and calling forth a reaction definitely
emotional. Moreover, at such a precise moment, the events may have been
raised to social consciousness, not as they appear to us in the clear
afterlight of scientific attitude and historical accuracy, but as
popular concepts of the moment, having power to arouse intense national
emotional reaction; similar recent popular waves of feeling, due not to
facts as they are, but to popular conceptions of such facts, will
readily occur to each reader.

With this warning that not the dignity of history, but the intensity of
public emotionalism is within the purview and area of our investigation,
we may proceed to a statement of the method and of the general thesis.

The method to be pursued, is to examine contemporaneous and concurrent
public events and emotion products, as expressed in Music.

The results indicated may be given a preliminary statement as follows:

1.  Agitation is a cause of pulse disturbance.

2.  Sufficient agitation produces fatal disturbance of bodily rhythm.

3.  All strong emotions are disturbers of rhythmic motion throughout the
    body.

4.  Rhythmic motion, too often disturbed, leads to abnormal mental and
    physical conditions.

5.  Civilization constantly "disturbs" the bodily rhythm.

6.  The political and industrial troubles of a nation are signs of
    national "disturbance" of rhythm.

7.  Music, closely expressing the emotional life of each period, is the
    unconscious application of a remedy to a human need of rhythmic
    stimulus.

These points are part of the general thesis, which may be stated in the
following terms: MUSIC IS A HUMAN NEED, INCREASING AND DECREASING WITH
SOCIAL PRESSURE.

The tendency of a group in each stage of human development, is to
produce Music fitting the character of the social disturbances of its
time, and communities which most fully meet this need of rhythm by
national culture of Music, tend to preserve for longer periods, the
serenity of the public mind. Thus it will be seen that national control
and support of Music may be assumed to be a national duty. This control
and support will aid in the preservation of a healthy state of the
public mind. Such a condition will make more effective all other efforts
for the abolition of discontent, disease, vice and criminality.

National culture and support of Music are effective means of exercising
social control, because of the calming influence of Music upon disturbed
thought. Such an influence is a most necessary one at the present stage
of mental agitation. Established within disturbed zones, national
institutions for free musical instruction would place a check upon
strained intellectualism, with its brood of idea-monstrosities, since
Music would cause a relaxation of mental concentration. It is a matter
of experience, that relaxation of tension generally accompanies the
yielding of the excited mind to musical rhythm.

Furthermore, there are other and not inconsiderable arguments for the
national support of Music. On account of the great expense of a musical
education, much promising American talent is now deprived of
cultivation. To all persons evidencing marked musical ability, and
showing themselves worthy of aid, this rich country should give national
support.

American national instruction in Music is also a duty to American
industry because such instruction would open the employment field in
Music to American wage earners. Some idea of the amount of private
business along this line may be gained from the following:

                         MUSIC IN THE WEST.[2]

If music seems a needless luxury to some, what will they think of the
cold economic fact of Chicago spending \$30,000,000 in one year for
musical instruments of all kinds, sheet music, music-books, musical
supplies, and music lessons? This figure is "based on reliable
information," says Mr.Â D. A. Clippinger, in *The Musician* (Boston), and
he intimates that this yearly expenditure of one Western city is only
typical of what the great expanse of our country beyond the Appalachians
is doing. It will be observed that this sum does not include what is
spent to hear music, but to gain instruction in it.

At present America is obliged to depend both for her best Music and
musical instruction largely upon foreign talent. With national support
of her own talent, this deplorable condition would soon cease. This
would also free Americans from absolute dependence upon private
institutions.

Music has also become an important industry, employing a vast number of
agents. It is high time that this employment were placed within reach of
American labor. Such an end can be attained only by furnishing adequate
training for this skilled work. At present foreigners are the agents for
the satisfaction of this need for rhythm in orchestras, bands, hotels,
restaurants, church choirs, studios, clubs, steamships, operas and at
social functions. An important wage earning occupation is thus out of
reach of our own talent.

It may be argued that considerable expense is already incurred by
municipalities and states, for training in musical appreciation in the
form of concerts, public school instruction, park bands, etc. These
expenses are admittedly very large and yet what is their productive
value along the line of musical instruction? What is the real value, for
instance, of the many thousands of dollars annually expended upon public
Music in a city like New York? The educated listener finds the programs
faulty, falling far short of a true expression of a composer's idea,
while to the uneducated hearer, it is principally a diversion of his
attention, without teaching him anything. The establishment of musical
departments in colleges will never be able to meet this crying need. The
majority of the institutions which depend even in part upon tuition-fees
received from their pupils, reach the least needy of our people, and
sometimes the least talented. Where the industrial shoe pinches the
hardest, there is where the national social or political danger lies,
and there is where the need is greatest. Where the social pressure is
most felt, there is formed a mine of musical diamonds. Neither the city
nor the state can so control musical development, as to produce a
national type in musical composition. Music is a universal need,
passionately craved by the nation's children. Hence our federal
government should attend to this demand, which is becoming more and more
insistent every day, indicative of a national want. We venture the not
idle prophecy, that the whole American nation would cheerfully bear a
tax, for so good a work as the establishment of national free schools of
Music all over our land. That European countries have recognized this
need is shown by the statistics which will be found below.\[3\] These
statistics were very difficult to procure, and are rather surprising in
content.

A copy of the questionnaire sent out will be found in Appendix A. The
nations from whom we expected the least expenditure for musical culture,
were found to be the most lavish. The United States stands apart from
the world's array of musical patrons. The recent interest in Indian and
Negro Music may, however, prove an entering wedge to a wider cultivation
of our national musical resources. Our State universities and our public
schools are institutions of which the nation is justly proud. Why not
open your arms a little wider, generous America, and take into your
embrace your own fair musical child, now so weak and puny, but full of
promise for the future? The hope of the writer is, that this cry will be
heard by the nation's head.

With such national support in view, we have gathered our statistics.
City ventures are not considered; park bands, military bands,\[4\] new
buildings for national musical academies, in short, all outlays for
Music not tending to contribute directly toward the musical education of
the people under consideration, are omitted. Thus the large
contributions of cities for public entertainments are left out of our
calculation entirely. The United States has not fallen into line with
European countries in national culture of Music, but probably this is
simply because the attention of our nation has not hitherto been called
to Music as a health measure. Too much ink has flowed in describing
Music as a diversion, as an amusement, as an ideal, as a superfluous
luxury, whereas no greater physical and mental need exists, than the
unconscious physical need of rhythm, the conscious physical need of
Music.

The world, it is true, may not at once accept the theory of "rhythm"
herein set forth. An investigation of it, however, would bring about
some new and interesting discoveries, in regard to unsuspected effects
of Music upon the nervous system. In any case, Music is a wonder worker
which should now occupy the attention of sociologists, psychologists,
and physicians.

Music has been generally regarded as the language of the emotions, but
it has never been determined why these emotions, having art, poetry, the
dance, and many other means of partial expression, so insistently
require sound for complete self-realization. The beat of the pulse and
the measure in Music are similar rhythmic expressions, but the close
relation of one to the other has heretofore been ignored. Yet groups
have a pulse; history has a pulse; the phenomena of the physical
universe have a pulse; all life manifestations are demonstrations of
pulse action.

What becomes of the countless millions of musical sound vibrations sent
into space by the orchestral performances in a great city? Are they all
impotent, reaching only to the auditory organs, and dying there? Or do
they actually enter the human system and set to their own perfect
rhythm, all of the discordant motions therein encountered? Do they not
"act as stimuli on the sensitive psychoplasm and effect changes in its
molecular composition?"\[5\]

All rhythm, however divided, is perfect motion. Rhythm, acting upon a
disturbed motion, tends to impose its own motion upon the discord, if
stronger than the disturbance encountered. This theory not only imputes
a higher mission to Music than has heretofore been realized, but also
accounts for phenomena of organized sound vibrations, and for the
craving of all human life for Music. This passionate desire for Music is
an established fact, and it remains but to show the need of this
inspiring sound stimulus, in order to place Music in the list of
recognized national necessities.

The willing response of Austria, Bavaria, Belgium, Denmark, England,
Equador, France, Holland, Hungary, Italy, Norway, Russia, Saxony, Sweden
and the United States to the author's request for musical statistics
merits special mention. Prussia alone of the nations applied to for
statistics appeared either unwilling, or unable to furnish the same
regarding her national support of Music. The author shared the general
opinion that Prussia led the world in this field. But although requested
through proper official channels, from several influential quarters, no
response was obtained. A cable from the United States Consul in Berlin
says that the musical "statistics are unavailable." The letter from the
Minister of Saxony may give some insight into the real condition of
German musical support, and as such it is added in Appendix E.\[6\]

The Appeal in this work is for a system of public musical instruction
upon the principles governing our public school management. This would
be a step in advance of the systems of governmental support of musical
institutions, as represented in the statistics included in this work,
which systems generally place a small charge upon those pupils who are
able to pay. All of these institutions admit to full privileges free of
any charge, the exceptionally talented among the poor. The object of
each such institution as we advocate, should be the support, by the
government, of native musical talent, without regard to profit or loss
in the management. Music is one of those sciences which do not attract
the untalented to their study, and, this being the case, little loss of
instruction is involved. The proper study of Music includes so many of
the regular public school studies, and so much of the elements of higher
education, as Psychology, Biology, Sociology, Physics, Economics, Social
Legislation, History, Languages, Literature, Physical Training,
Self-Control, to say nothing of the mathematical studies included in
such branches as orchestration, harmony, counterpoint, etc., that a
model musical college would furnish an education and culture, far more
beneficial to individuals and the group, than is offered by some of the
present systems of education. The immediate cost would be immense, but
the author is convinced that this outlay would bring quick returns, in
decreasing costs for the protection of the native individual, from many
of the effects of nerve derangement in children and in adults, in
lessening discontent, riots, antagonism between labor and capital, and
many manifestations of partial insanity. In short, such a system is a
prime factor in social control, to the lack of which may be ascribed in
some measure the present peril to civilization.

We take this opportunity to express our indebtedness for the statistics
furnished in each case to the following gentlemen, who, either in their
official or in a private capacity, replied to the questionnaire
submitted, and whose co-operation has been invaluable in our attempt to
present the most recent conditions of State-aided Music abroad: Wilhelm
Bopp, Director of the Imperial and Royal Academy of Music and Fine Arts,
Vienna, Austria; M. Steiner, Minister of the Interior for Religion and
Schools, Bavaria; M. Phillis, Minister of Arts and Sciences, Belgium; J.
Clan, Danish Consul-General in New York, and Cornelius RÃ¼bner, head of
the Music Department of Columbia University; Olmedo Alfaro, son of the
President of Equador, and the Directors of the Conservatory of Quito,
Equador; A. W. Twenlyman, of the English Education Board, London,
England; I. Philipp of the Paris Conservatory; Th. Heemskerk, Minister
of the Interior, Holland; Luigi Credaro, Minister of Public Instruction,
Rome, Italy; Ole Olesen, Military Inspector of Music, Norway; Wm.
Thackara, American Consul-General, Berlin, Germany; Alexandre
Lyssakovsky, First Secretary of the Russian Embassy, Washington, D. C.;
(Graf) Vitzhum von Eckstaedt, Minister of the Interior, Saxony; Bror
Beckman, of the Royal Conservatory of Music, Stockholm, Sweden; L. A.
Kalbach, Chief Clerk of the United States Bureau of Education,
Washington, D. C.; Mr.Â Wm. H. Taft, ex-President of the United States;
Naray-Szabo, Secretary of State, Hungary, and Dr. Paul Majewsky, Chief
of the Fine Art Section of the Royal Hungarian Ministry of Public
Worship and Education, Budapest.

Gratitude is due also for the inspiration found in the courses of
studies pursued under the direction of the following Columbia
professors: Dr.Â F. H. Giddings in Sociology, Dr.Â Henry Seager in
Economics, Dr.Â S. McC. Lindsay in Social Legislation, Dr.Â E. R. A.
Seligman in Economics, Dr.Â J. B. Clark, Dr.Â A. A. Tenney in Sociology,
Dr.Â R. E. Chaddock in Statistics, Dr.Â C. Ruebner in Music, and Dr. V. G.
Simkhovitch in Economics. Not one of these courses has proved
superfluous in the present dissertation, and we are proud indeed that
Music, so long considered as a luxury, can show the relations to the
interests which they represent. Especially great is our obligation to
Professors Giddings, Seager, Chaddock, Lindsay and Ruebner.

Our sincere thanks are due, in the gathering of these statistics to
Commendatore Eugenio di Pirani, President of the American Philharmonic
Academy.

FOOTNOTES:

\[1\] Long labor movements which are conceded to be slow emotion-making
forces are not included.

\[2\] The *Literary Digest*, January 10, 1914.

\[3\] Appendix E.

\[4\] Reference is to hired bands, not made up of musicians trained for
the purpose by the Federal Government. Such training, as in England,
constitutes an important form of vocational training.

\[5\] Riddle of the Universe, by Ernst Haekel, p.Â 110.

\[6\] The highly prized originals of the foreign ministerial letters are
preserved and in the writer's possession.

                                PART I.

                              THE THESIS.




                              CHAPTER I.

                        MUSIC AS A HUMAN NEED.

Our thesis contemplates a new phase in psychological and sociological
study, one wherein we must endeavor to estimate the part played in
mental and environmental development, by vibration as the acting force.

In whatever direction we turn, Music is met with in one form or another.
The undoubted fact that Music is not confined to the human species, but
is a part of bird and other animal life, is strongly indicative that
there is something more in Music, than its apparent pleasurable quality,
and that beneath its array of superficial forms, there must lie some
great fundamental necessity for its existence and functioning. Upon it
may depend the preservation of the life of certain complex living
organisms.

Darwin's theory as expressed in "The Descent of Man"\[7\] seems to us
not to touch the real source of the phenomenon, and in Spencer's
"Illustrations of Universal Progress," the latter's theory of the Origin
and Function of Music\[8\] seems to us to omit the greatest factor in
Music. Spencer's idea is that all Music is an idealization of the
natural language of passion, but the nature of passion does not in
reality lend itself to Music, because passion's spontaneity of action
forever forbids the exercise of that control which is needed in the
performance of Music. Wallaschek, in "Primitive Music,"\[9\] claims that
Music is the result of the original rhythmical impulse in man. This last
mentioned theory approaches more nearly the theory advanced by us in the
present work, namely, that Music originates in man's *need* of
rhythmical sound-vibrations, for the re-establishment of rhythmical
motion in his own nervous system, disturbed by the evolutionary increase
of mental action not rhythmically employed.\[10\] In order to view the
subject fully, and in all its implications, we must retrace the path of
evolution to that point, where the living thing which later developed
into the man of today, first found itself in possession of locomotion
agencies and prehensile appendages, and first began to move about in
search of energy materials, with which to satisfy an inward need of
integration. The first thing that moved began to dissipate its motion,
and to "need" corresponding integration. Rhythm marked this primitive
inward action, undisturbed by ideas; rhythm also governed the external
stimulus. This prehistoric atavus ate when hungry, or when he could get
food, his need being rhythmical, at the time when fruit and nuts offered
easy satisfaction of a rhythmic hunger; he awoke at daybreak, and slept
with the sun; rhythmic at all times.

Now, therefore, this early man's circulation and pulse must have been
relatively rhythmic, yet there is no record of Music as an invention,
until a new factor arose in his environment.\[11\] The needs of life
began to suggest partnerships, children cemented parenthood groups,
family groups met and associated with other family groups, still others
were added and the Tribe was formed. Much of the Tribal life of
prehistoric times is a matter of conjecture, but enough can be learned
from the *mores* of later tribes, to suggest with reasonable probability
some of the earliest tribal customs. Music is a late invention, but the
elements out of which Music is fashioned--rhythm, motion and
sound--constitute the first impulses, the first responses to stimuli in
themselves rhythmic; and the oldest peoples exhibit traces of the love
of sound in rhythmic action. The probability is that association, with
man as with birds, developed a need of communication; from this need
originated the acoustic formation of speech, and speech in turn brought
the first conscious interchange of ideas. Intense mental action causes
disturbed physical rhythm. Physical functions are not yet adapted to the
physical disturbance caused by such mental action. The organs for the
assimilation of the terrific stimuli of modern life, are still
imperfectly developed, as is illustrated by the inability of the body to
cope with increasing intellectuality, and the consequent alleged
increase of insanity in modern times. As the eye has evolved from the
sense of touch to its present power, and may progress to a capacity for
still clearer vision, so has the nervous system evolved from its single
cell, to its present cell multiplicity, and may develop new cell
formations, with which to support changing degrees of added stimuli.

A departure from established belief will be noted at this point. Ideas
were wonderful and powerful stimuli to the primitive mind. That extreme
tension which causes modern minds to become unbalanced, is not
proportionately more intense, than must have been the reaction of the
primitive mind, to the very first question and answer of primitive
speech. A new stimulus acting upon a new organ produced a new
disturbance--a disturbance of a life heretofore purely rhythmic; and a
part of the internal organic family became separated for independent
motion, became differentiated with a rhythm of its own, differing as a
matter of course, from that old established rhythm of the most ancient
physical life. Right at this point of development, the need of more or
less conscious readjustment was instinctively felt. Internal rhythm had
been disturbed, and man immediately invented an artificial producer of
rhythmic vibration: i. e.--percussion. This sent into his nervous system
uncounted thousands of rhythmic impulses, which tended to reestablish
his disturbed rhythmic motion. To hold that the first rhythmic
inventions are to be looked for in war songs, in religious rites, or in
festal diversions, seems to us to ignore, not only all of the immensely
important prior steps by which such comparative complexity has been
attained, but also to leave the phenomenon of rhythm-craving, before the
invention of the most primitive instrument, entirely unaccounted for.
When the war element enters into tribal life, there has already been
some growth of institutionalization. Home life, marriage, inheritance,
government--these we find already in a certain stage of development, in
the very earliest tribes of which we have any positive knowledge. The
life of these tribes, so similar in all parts of the world, produced
certain disturbances within the original rhythmic bodily motion. The
reaction to such disturbance was exactly expressed, in the rhythm
producers instinctively devised at each stage. War was the only great
disturber of habitual rhythm for ages, and consequently Music of a
character to meet the need of this element was early invented.

For domestic rhythm-disturbing crises, Music--sound--was often employed
by the tribes. The ancient Chinese\[12\] used to "sound" the house of a
newly wedded couple, under the impression that in this way the bride and
groom would enter a home "cleared of evil demons". Here we have a
sub-conscious recognition of the actual driving force of rhythmic
vibration. So, in ancient Japan, war songs were the old expressions of
national agitation. These, accompanied as they invariably were, by high
sentiments of loyalty and patriotism, steadied the rage of war-fever to
a good fighting point, and prevented impulsive, or too reckless
charging.

The Hindus\[13\] believe their musical scale is an inspiration from
Heaven. Their Music is an expression of religious rather than military
agitation.

When we think of how primitive man at first must have wondered at all
the unknown forces about him, is it not possible to believe that
religious, rather than warlike emotion, was the first to intensely
agitate all early tribes?

The ancient peoples of Aryan stock seem to have been highly gifted
musically. Probably because of their roving habits, their warlike
spirit, or their pursuit of culture, the Aryans developed early and
highly, this greater need of rhythmic stimulus in percussion.

Persian agitation took the form of occultism, as is shown in the devices
on the walls of their fire temples. Their Music was held to be symbolic.
They believed, for example, that Music was like a tree, and that its
tones were representative of fire, water, air and earth, of the signs of
the zodiac, of the planets and even of day and night.\[14\]

Music becomes combined with ideas in the expression of rhythm, in direct
proportion to the development of ideas in the culture of the several
races. When war ceased to be the chief factor in the disturbance of
bodily rhythm, and still later, when periods of rest became usual
between long wars, the impetus already given to tribes by the decisive
occupations of warfare, and the consequent increased molecular motion of
the organs, turned tribal attention in times of rest to thoughts of
love, decoration and poetry, but chiefly to the thought of recording the
stirring deeds of their heroes in music of some kind. The Indians have
probably sung their deeds ever in rhythm, though often with an
instrumental accompaniment in a differing rhythm, which common practice
must have filled the need of a mental state "disturbed" by the stimuli
of ever present danger.\[15\]

Rhythmic music considered as a creation of mind and as a need of the
body, the measurement of the effect of musical vibrations upon human
action, is sure to lead the way to a surprising fund of new knowledge.
The number of vibrations caught by the ear in the simplest drum
performance must be enormous, and when it is realized that these
vibrations represent a live force striking the tense nerves, and that
the effects are quantitatively measurable in a psycho-physiological
laboratory, a significant development of psychiatry may be confidently
predicted. It would be interesting to study the differing results of the
same musical environment, upon the nervous reactions of partially deaf,
and of normal beings, to find out how far the subjective and conscious
awareness of certain sounds, affects the objective physical results of
the vibratory force producing them.

Animals are known to be sensitive to the sounds of Music, and birds even
create that which is called Music; this creation on the part of birds,
seems to us nothing more than their instinctive effort to re-establish
disturbed internal rhythmic action.\[16\] At any rate, vibration is the
fundamental element of Music as of life, and where Music exists there
has ever been an antecedent excitement of some sort.

Complicated intellectual stimuli being absent in tribal life, the
general rhythm was at most periods moderately easy to maintain. Events
of sufficient newness to be exciting were rare. Tribal wars were felt to
be the usual occupation of ordinary existence. So that whether polygamy
or monogamy characterized the marriage relation, whether woman or man
ruled the home life, whether human or animal sacrifices were offered to
one or to several gods, the stimuli met in daily experiences were very
similar in their monotony, and very much the same in all tribes. Customs
were handed down from one generation to another, and carried from one
part to another of the earth's surface, but ordinary experiences varied
little until, under the stimulation of steam-driven engines and
machines, nations developed the industrial fever, which seems to
characterize modern times. Even today in localities where newspapers and
railroads do not penetrate, life tends to revert to primitive ideals.
The interests of the tribes lay in the raising of cattle, in the birth
of male offspring, in the division of labor into the search for, and the
preparation of, food, and in the unification of a strong group hostile
to all other groups. These occupations coexisted with a simplicity of
environment, unexciting to the reposeful sense organs, amid a scenic
surrounding ever untouched by artificiality; where village scenes of
little variety took place; where no reason existed to cause abnormal
quickness of eye movements; where occurred only rare shocks to the
regular rhythm of the nerve cell motions. Thus there was little or no
need of complicated rhythm in Music. It will be remembered that Music is
a need for that part of humanity or of any living organism which through
reason of its prior reception of irregular stimuli, has disturbed the
natural internal and independent rhythmic motion, imparted by the mother
in the birth process. An augmented heart action is not harmful at times,
even if it be above the normal, but a heart action which is ever
changing its beat, now fast, now slow, now weak, now strong, tends to
derange the normal rhythmic life motion of the cells, a result caused by
modern multiplicity of irregular stimuli, and observable in modern
civilized man. Great multiplicity of stimuli the tribal man rarely
experienced. His percussive Music was not complex, because the life
stimuli were not complex; the nervous system of the savage was disturbed
by but few mental processes--the simple results of the few and unvarying
stimuli offered by his tribal life.

Approaching modern times, let us see what role was assumed by Music in
the tribal life of the early Germanic races. In those times of war
excitement, when tribes fought like wild animals, and the war spirit
held full sway, the Germans on their march to battle, helmets decorated
with the heads of animals, their big bodies clothed in the simple
*sagum*, chanted their war songs, and kept up a rhythmic beating upon
their shields. This ever visible trend toward rhythmic sound indicates a
subconscious need of it, a need which often annoys us in our children's
craving for the noise of percussion,--a noise, it may have been observed
by long-suffering parents, which they love beyond all other diversions.
So long as war and religion alone occupied mankind, and before the human
need of rhythmic sound became so pronounced, as to create the very
complicated idea of producing vibratory impulse, from pleasurable sound
intervals, combined with word pictures of human emotions--so long was
mere rhythm in Music sufficient to re-establish disturbed internal
motion.

The Gauls advanced a step beyond the Germans toward musical
organization, by their maintenance of "bands of barders," who were
described by Tacitus as accompanying the Gallic armies in order to cheer
the warriors.

FOOTNOTES:

\[7\] Part II, p.Â 375: "The true song however of most birds and various
strange cries are chiefly uttered during the breeding season, and serve
as a charm, or merely as a call-note to the other sex."

\[8\] Vol. II, Chap. 19.

\[9\] Chapter 9.

\[10\] If, as Haekel says in "The Riddle of the Universe," p.Â 116, "When
the mimosa roots are shaken by the tread of a passerby, the stimulus is
immediately conveyed to all the cells of the plant," may not the far
stronger stimulus of musical sound be similarly transmitted to the human
cells not directly concerned in hearing?

\[11\] The octave of half-tones sung by the Hylobates Syndactylus is
merely an effort at speech.

\[12\] American History and Encyclopedia of Music.

\[13\] Ibid.

\[14\] Ibid.

\[15\] It will be noted that the reference to ideas as "disturbances of
purely physical, molecular rhythm" is used throughout this book, for it
is here claimed that just as the unconscious cessation of breathing for
a few seconds during the writing of an idea, expresses the check of
mental action upon heart action and the circulation of the blood, so
also does the continual reception of new impressions into the mind,
affect the original regular rhythmic movement of the entire body. Hence
thought is a real disturber of rhythm within the body. Similarly, any
burst of anger, fear, or joy is immediately registered in the pulse.

\[16\] We are aware that Darwin stresses the element of sexual selection
in the bird's song.

                              CHAPTER II.

                           MUSIC AND MOTION.

Music, a recognized but still undirected agent for rhythm maintenance,
is sought and produced in accordance with the disturbance of a body
politic or of a body individual. The musical products of a nation mirror
that nation's history far better than pen and ink can laboriously spell
it out. Music reaches down into physiological and psychological needs,
and tends to reestablish rhythmic equilibrium, whether applied to
physical organs, or to members of a national body. And as the aggregates
of matter and motion in human bodies combine all of their unequal,
complex, and yet distinct rhythms under one mean rhythm, which becomes
the characteristic rhythm of the whole, so do the musical products of a
nation, during a given time or age, combine their unequal motions under
a mean motion or characteristic, which includes all rhythmic products
and which we see as a characteristic "color," or "temperament" in the
national Music of that period. And as the mean governing rhythm or pulse
of one being, individual or national, cannot be mistaken for the mean of
any other combination than its own, so the "color" or "temperament" of
the musical products of one country, is clearly distinguishable from
that of the Musical products of other countries.

In like manner, humanity, that larger aggregate of human molecules,
shows a mean color in the united products or motions of its parts, the
nations. The "tone" of the Music of the Nineteenth century, is more
complex than that of the Eighteenth century, although Spain still
re-establishes her Eighteenth century disturbances with Eighteenth
century Music. England, with few deeply disturbed emotions is satisfied
with doses of early Nineteenth century Music. France applies her own
vivid intellectual sound pictures to her psychological and political
disturbances. Germany finds the panacea for her disturbances in colors
of soul tragedy and strong sentimentality. Italy, until her recent steps
toward modern methods in stimuli productions, sipped her delightful
comedy and her flowery tragedy, from graceful old-fashioned musical
cups. Nineteenth century musical productions in England, France, Germany
and Italy are, we may say, pictures of their several national
"disturbances," and exact quantitative measurements of the depth to
which the mean national rhythm was disturbed. All of these musical
productions again react upon humanity's aggregate, and are combined
under what is known as the Nineteenth century mean rhythm, or age
characteristic.

As has been noted above, there are too few data indicative of the habits
of primitive man, for us to learn aught of his Music, but it is safe to
assume that its comparative simplicity or complexity corresponded with
the comparative simplicity or complexity of his mental and physical
life. Undoubtedly, the earliest group complexity arose with roving
habits, the entrance into new environments, and the subjection of man's
psycho-physical system to new "strains" of disturbing stimuli.

According to this theory we must define "disturbances" as, such
responses to varying stimuli as unduly accelerate or retard bodily pulse
motion, changing the *normal* rhythm of the pulse. Examples are to be
found in sudden migrations, outbursts of enthusiasm, wars, revolts, and
even in certain eager intellectual pursuits.

Music is a phase of the evolutionary process. Musical evolution has also
its order: (a) in appreciation,\[17\] when the primitive human mind
becomes conscious of existing rhythm, of sound combinations; (b) in
utilization, when its seemingly magical effect suggested its association
with the festivities and rites of worship; (c) in characterization, when
it stands on a pedestal of its own, recognized as a human necessity
perfectly adapted to its environment; and (d) in socialization, when its
end as an agent in self-realization shall be entirely comprehended.
Characterization is the mode which Music has reached today.
Socialization is just beginning, and is yet more fully to be developed
with greater understanding.

Again in Musical Evolution there has been an ideo-motor stage of
development.\[18\] This forceful, aggressive, persistent motor stage was
shown in the rude drums and other rough-hewn instruments of early man.
In its convivial imaginative aspect it has answered to the need of the
ideo-emotional type. The dogmatic emotional need has drawn forth from
that type's resources the austere musical products of master genius. Do
we not find today in France, Germany and in modern Italy a national
rhythm disturbed by critically intellectual\[19\] stimuli, which in turn
call forth critically intellectual Music of the most distinct
complexity? Music is both a social and a socializing force, which,
although created by society, reacts upon its creator.

Reviewing the stages of Musical Evolution do we not discern concerted
volition? Does not the mean tone of national musical types show
concerted acceptance of that which answers to national tastes and needs?
The very applause which establishes the modern type, is the outward sign
of an inward intent to embrace that product. Cool and restrained
judgment precedes *that* acceptance. Any audience manifests resembling
sensations of resembling individuals in that oneness of criticism so
generally exhibited. Clearly indeed in this latter case do we perceive
that reflective sympathy which shows us how like to our neighbor we are.
Then there is the evidence of organic sympathy which establishes that
liking or disliking for certain Music, according as the mean motion or
the rhythm of the Musical sound vibrations, correspond to a similar
combination of motions and rhythms in our own systems. And is not the
affection for a rhythm similar to our own, stronger than is our liking
for one dissimilar? Can a dogmatic emotional\[20\] type experience a
true affection for, or feel a sincere need of, ragtime ditties? Could
Italy in the early part of the Nineteenth century feel affection for the
Music of a von Weber? Could Germany in the fever of Franco-Prussian
emotionalism feel affection for the works of Verdi? Paris disliked
Wagner's operas until very recently.

Lest this should seem like an attempt to stretch sociological
terminology to cover territory other than its own, let us continue our
examination. Even in the progress from the homogeneous to the
heterogeneous, Music, in its national parts, though highly heterogeneous
like the integrated parts of the body, is yielding to the social passion
for homogeneity. This is indicated by the increasing similarity of its
ideals. Even Italy in her new awakening is reaching out toward musical
equality with the most complex modern ideals, illustrating the tendency
of all inequality toward final equality.

The Music which answered to the needs of an Ethnic Society could not
possibly re-establish the disturbed rhythm of political groups. The
"gentile family" system for a long time successfully counteracted the
effects of heterogeneous motion attacks upon the calm nervous structure,
by a Music suited to its needs. Only with the decay of the patriarchal
system did groups come to demand complexity in the re-establishing
agency, Music.

Internal disturbances must have been rare in all clan life, surrounding
stimuli being relatively homogeneous, simple and diffused. Paleolithic
man, with his unchanging external environment, had little reason for
internal disturbance. What slight disturbances he suffered were probably
remedied by simple rhythmic composition of some kind: even babies create
a pronounced sound rhythm with any instrument at hand, and indicate real
pleasure derived from what to us seems mere noise.

Sounds produced by non-human beings are mere discharge of surplus
energy, in a creation of rhythmic stimulus, and not conscious sound
combinations in song. Music is a "natural" product of *human* society.
It must be as old as those integrations of parts in the human body,
which became aggregates of matter and motion, to take care of new
stimuli colliding with the motions already contained. Through lower,
middle, and upper savagery,\[21\] even before the beginning of speech,
Music must have been at hand, although in its simplest conceivable form.
Music kept pace with the comparatively simple external stimuli of each
period.

With the use of fire and of the bow and arrow in upper savagery, came a
new heterogeneity in the stimuli entering the organism; disturbances
were still simple, but with the domestication of animals, with the
cultivation of plants by irrigation, with the use of adobe brick and
stone in architecture, Music must have gradually increased in its
complexity in order to cope with the new disturbances of bodily motion
consequent upon those changes in man's reaction to his environment.
Then, with the use of iron in upper barbarism, Music began anew to
exhibit its needed usefulness, as in the Grecian tribes of the Homeric
Age, and in the German tribes of Caesar's time.

By these times Music had passed well out of the stages of
"appreciation," into those of "utilization."\[22\] Strongly rhythmic, it
contributed to the recreation (re-creations indeed) of bodily
equilibrium! It calmed intense inward motion, or stimulated flagging
circulation in its union with religious rites. From such accomplishments
of later barbarians as poetry, mythology, fine temple architecture,
walled cities, ship building, wine manufacture, woven fabrics,
implements for grinding corn, the side hill furnace for smelting ore,
and many other early mechanical contrivances,\[23\] civilization evolved
its phonetic alphabet and its literary records, building the
rhythm-disturbing stimuli of civilization. In the meanwhile the family
develops to the point of monogamy, and individual property rights usher
in a new political system. An advanced form of municipal life in
fortified cities having already created the ideal of city treasure to be
protected, the step was ultimately taken from this to individual
property rights distinct from those of the gens.

The fact that Music as we first encounter it is already somewhat
complex, is not surprising when we regard it in terms of motion,
duplicating in principle the construction of the human body. The latter
may also be regarded in terms of motion; for what are bodily organs but
integrations of molecules in motion? The rhythm of a bodily organ is
like a note composed of periodic motions.\[24\] The various organs of
differing masses and motions, acting together under one chief rhythm,
are but chords of various notes, while that average of averages, the
pulse, registers the governing rhythm of all of these together, as does
the *time* in music.

With the differentiation of the Aryan race from those barbarians who
were not active in making and utilizing new inventions, certain
re-arrangements of bodily motions resulted which could not fail to
"disturb" old life habits. With artificial rhythm already at hand,
instinct alone would be sufficient to prompt its application.
Appreciation of Music at this stage would mirror only the satisfaction
derived from the hearing of rhythmic sounds, sufficiently varied to
inflame or calm inward motion, without carrying it too far from the
norm. The "gens" system as found in Greece, Rome, and among American
aborigines, as also among the Irish sept, and Scottish clan, would tend
to restrain complex emotions. Such gentes, being consanguine bodies,
descended from the same common ancestor, and having a gentile name, and
held together by actual or fictitious ties of blood, were compact bodies
with institutions comparatively simple. They were like primitive bodily
forms, consisting of motions contained within an outer crust, and with
few distinct inward integrations.

Music, as simple rhythm agreeable to the ear, would fulfill all
disturbance needs of that time, and would itself be a mere contained
motion, with few integrated parts. Only with the beginning of "rational"
thinking or the "interposition of new ideas between stimulation and the
consequent muscular action,"\[25\] does such complexity of mental effort
induce the integration of new parts with new motions in order to meet
the added strain.

FOOTNOTES:

\[17\] Giddings' Descriptive and Historical Sociology, pp.Â 186 to 212.

\[18\] Giddings' Descriptive and Historical Sociology, p.Â 237.

\[19\] Otherwise known as rationalistic.

\[20\] Giddings, op. cit. pp.Â 238-239.

\[21\] Morgan: Ancient Peoples.

\[22\] Giddings' Descriptive and Historical Sociology, pp.Â 186 to 212.

\[23\] Morgan's Ancient Peoples.

\[24\] Helmholtz, Sensations of Tone, Part I, p.Â 8.

\[25\] Giddings' Descriptive and Historical Sociology, p.Â 346.

                             CHAPTER III.

                GROUP AND INDIVIDUAL REACTION TO MUSIC.


                   _A Brief Record of Experiments._

Music tranquillizes human agitation. We believe that enough of musical
vibration will tranquillize all agitation, whether it be such as is
manifested in abnormal mental, or abnormal physical movements. Music
acts differently upon those low states of motion represented by the
phlegmatic temperament and rural communities. Here music excites more
than it does when colliding with agitated nerve motions. These two
marked effects of music were noticed by the author in the following
experiences which extended over a period of many years, among all of the
classes which compose the civilized group:

From Concerts through Canada and Western U. S.

From three successive tours of the Baltic Province of Russia, with
audiences of the Ideo-Emotional and Dogmatic-Emotional types.

From Concert and opera tests in Germany and England.

From Concert and opera tests in the Eastern States of U. S.

From Concert and opera tests among the revolutionary elements of New
York City, including Coney Island tent life for five months, lower East
Side social work for five years, Brooklyn Working Girl tests, church,
political, and society study among actual audiences represented by these
classes.

More than two hundred thousand people were observed during these tests
as to the effects of music, and the results suggested the following
needs, which the author believes may be extended to the treatment of
many diseases of the mind. Abnormally heightened or abnormally lowered
bodily agitation, or inward motion, "needs" rhythmic stimulus from
highly agitated motion, as in music; the *like* state of highly agitated
motion in the body responds to the stimulus in calmed motions; the
abnormally lowered bodily agitation responds to the *unlike* stimulus in
the highly agitated motions of music, in excitation: a perfectly normal
body "needs" no music (but such do not exist).

(1) Those social and individual bodies manifesting abnormal states of
    agitation "need" contact with such a body of rhythmic musical
    vibration as will calm and impose a normal rhythmic motion upon the
    disturbed motion represented by the agitation.

(2) Those social and individual bodies manifesting abnormal states of
    phelgma "need" contact with such a body of rhythmic musical
    vibration as will *excite* the low motion states, and impose a
    normal rhythmic motion upon the sub-normal motion represented by the
    phlegmatic states.

Above conclusions are offered as a result of the following types of
experiments.

       _Experiments Upon the Ideo-Motor to Ideo-Emotional Type._

Desiring to try the effects of music combined with lectures of a
political character, among the lower elements of Coney Island dwellers,
we set up a 60 Ã 90 ft. tent at the foot of Ocean Parkway, in May, 1909;
600 chairs, a decorated platform, a grand piano and gay flags of all
nations were distributed in their proper places. The subject of all
lectures was *Woman's Suffrage*, a theme most unpopular at that time and
especially distasteful to a Coney Island mind. The prevailing religion
of the district was Catholicism. The first week was devoted to suffrage
lectures without music. Crowds filled the floor space of our big tent
each night, and from the beginning we distinctly felt the murmurs of
intended trouble. Our speakers were men high in public favor, but one of
these made the following unfortunate remark:

"Catholicism is the curse of the laboring class."

Then a workingman stood up and hurled uncomplimentary epithets at us for
trying to destroy the laboring man's only blessing--his faith. A woman
added tears for her beloved church, and a socialist added oil to the
flame by a bitter attack upon religion in general. Before we could make
ourselves heard, a fight ensued which attracted a large outside crowd.
Several policemen finally dispersed the excited audience. Our broken
chairs bore mute witness of the damage, but no intention of giving up
was entertained. The certainty of serious trouble for the following
evening hastened our institution of music in the program. During the
afternoon following our mishap, we were informed by the police that
trouble was brewing for the "tent folks." With some trepidation we
entered the tent that evening. A large crowd of the "rowdy" element had
gathered by eight o'clock. Four policemen guarded the entrance, but many
very rough looking men crawled under the canvas at the sides and cast
knowing glances at acquaintances.

Our artists for this first program had been carefully chosen, a soprano,
delicate in voice and personality, a genial looking baritone, an
excellent "cellest," one of our best known violinists, and a pianist of
world-wide renown. We all "held our breaths" in anticipation of what
might happen. The speaker began. Immediately cat-calls and horns drowned
her voice. The air was filled with foul epithets. Suddenly some one
threw a stone which struck the speaker on the cheek. The meanness of the
insult quieted the mob, and an officer removed the offender. Then in a
few words the people were asked to reserve judgment until after the
musical program.

A trio performance for violin, "cello" and piano was given. Whispering
and excited murmurs continued all through this long number, but when the
soprano sang the old love aria, "Ah, fors' e lui," from "La Traviata" by
Verdi, a sudden hush fell upon the audience. At the close of this aria,
emotional, tuneful and simple in construction, a storm of applause broke
forth. Encores of ballads followed, and when "The Last Rose of Summer"
was given, with the emotional addition of a genuine red rose, whose
petals were scattered in compliance with the text, women wept, and men
settled down sullenly in their seats. The irritation of the preceding
three days had been reduced to normal rhythmic motion, in less than one
hour of musical treatment. The rest of that evening was in every way a
success.

This was not an unique experience. Musicless lectures were always more
excitable in effect than were those combined with music. So certain were
the results of our combination, that before the end of the summer, we
could discuss any "views" with a mob element, by alternating an exciting
subject with an artistically rendered musical selection. At every step,
music proved its power to soothe, and showed how great is the human need
of its vibratory mission.

Instances of similar effect of music upon mental agitation were observed
in other situations. During a trip across the Atlantic on the old vessel
"Trava," a dangerous accident occurred during a severe storm. A panic
threatened. The first officer whispered to the author to sing a song.
She started the national hymns, inviting the passengers to show their
patriotism and nationality by joining. First the "Star Spangled Banner"
brought out a few voices, then the "Wacht am Rhein" swelled the chorus;
the "Marseillaise" was then responded to, and when "The Wearing of the
Green" brought forth one lusty Irish brogue, such a laugh ran round the
dining saloon as completely broke the strained condition and
re-established normal rhythmic pulse motion.

The tension of nerve during strikes was reduced several times by musical
"benefits." Dangerous excitement at political meetings was often
converted into harmless emotionalism under evenings of Eighteenth
century comedy opera tests on the East Side of Manhattan. The
establishment of The Working Girls Club in Brooklyn in 1912 afforded an
excellent opportunity for testing the reviving effects of music upon
tired brains and bodies. One hundred and forty young and healthy working
girls from department stores, telephone offices and factories, used the
club house dedicated to their use and at first evidenced pleasure and
benefit from the classes instituted. But presently a depressing
weariness of aspect appeared, a "trying to learn" expression, which
promised little for energetic application. The law class dwindled to two
members; the millinery class could not attract more than six students,
the cooking class began with thirty-five and ended with four, the
dress-making class held but three pupils: the class in simple science
was not attractive, the language classes began well, but the girls were
too tired to study. Finally we gave them what they wanted, and what they
needed--music. What a change came over the mental attitude! Monday,
Wednesday and Friday nights, singing individually and in chorus was
taught. Three hours of music swept away all traces of weariness, and
sparkling eyes and rosy cheeks exhibited anew the need of music. All
through the year 1912-13 for twelve months, the opera "Martha" by Flotow
was rehearsed, and never was there occasion to complain of poor
attendance, wandering attention, or lack of interest. A public
performance was given in the Spring of 1913 at Labor Lyceum, Brooklyn.
Notwithstanding long days of labor, the girls did great credit to their
leaders' work in training.

Turning to individual experiments, an instance of the strangely
normalizing effects of music upon abnormal nervous conditions comes to
our mind. A noble minded woman, lately deceased, devoted her life to the
Sittig Christmas Tree Celebration, which annually gave a Christmas feast
of presents, candies, books and entertainment to about seven thousand of
Brooklyn's poor children. She was so deaf that she heard with great
difficulty, even with the aid of electrical devices. Yet she could hear
softly spoken words, *provided the speaker kept playing softly upon the
piano during the conversation*. "I do not need any artificial aid in
hearing any sound audible to a normal ear, while music is in the air,"
she once told us. Another woman, affected with continual trembling of
the hands, became perfectly quiet and normal in action while riding in a
carriage. In reply to our question as to the reason for this phenomenon,
she replied, "The noise of the carriage wheels resolves itself into
regular 'beats' which I cannot help trying to imitate." It may be that
this is but another illustration of the "need" of disturbed or
unrhythmic motion for "regular beats" or rhythmic motion. A friend in
Berlin was painfully deaf, yet he heard the slightest whisper over the
telephone. His similar normality when listening to music, suggested to
the author to class all rhythmic co-operated vibrations producing a
*continuous sensation* in the ear, under the name of musical rhythmic
vibrations. This would extend the realm of musical need to many highly
active motions not generally included in the term "music." Telephones,
railway motion sounds, moaning of winds, continuous washing sounds of
waves, do in fact produce results strangely similar to those seen in the
application of music. Excitable people are quieter at sea-side resorts,
and restless in isolated mountain districts. We have closely observed
the types of individuals at water resorts in Europe and America.
Everywhere the same type prevails. It is the highly strung temperament
which needs and seeks the "highly strung" atmosphere. We have observed
like instances in nervous university students, who study and memorize
best in the street cars.

                       _Ideo-Emotional Groups._

In our German experience, the music which elicited the largest response
seemed to be that which impressed emotional pictures upon the mind.
Schuman lieder are of this character: they are full of chivalric
example, suggestion, symbol, shibboleth, and tend to awaken emotional
reactions. In the home circles, the sentiment in music is strongly
expressed. No true German will allow you to heighten the seat at the
piano with a volume of Beethoven Sonaten. You cannot sit upon Beethoven
in a loyal German house.

Even in the grand opera audiences of Germany, the public persists in
manifesting a love for those musical ideas which awake emotions rather
than cool critical judgment. The simple Kinder Lieder can be counted
upon to bring the emotions to view, and unrequited love, the romantic
woes of a god-like hero, or the dainty texts of sentimental ballads, are
as effectual now as they ever were. Russian audiences are still more
responsive to the emotional element in music, but their temperaments
have a strong dash of the Ideo-motor in them.

All through Canada and the Western part of the United States, the
Ideo-Emotional type of music awakens quickest response. Old ballads like
"Coming Through the Rye," "Home Sweet Home," "Annie Laurie," will bring
applause during the preludes, and only in the most complicated
environment is there a genuine response to the relatively complicated
works of Wagner.

In a concert test upon the stone-working Italians at Wappingers Falls,
N. Y., the home-sick Italians were so affected by "Santa Lucia" that
they all closed their eyes and joined the singer, weeping as they sang.
It was reported dangerous for a woman to go alone among these men, but
they sang song after song for us, and escorted her five miles to the
railroad station.\[26\]

                      _Dogmatic-Emotional Types._

The Greek Church music and the music of the Catholic Church acts
specially upon the Dogmatic-Emotional types. It is a curious sight to
Americans to watch Russian peasants and officials praying in the
railroad stations before rough altars and highly gilded images. The
candles, always burning, suggest the strength of that command,
authority, dogma, belief, which lies so heavily upon Russian minds.
Under such a burden, the type of music must come within the restricted
range of comprehension permitted to this type of mind. Yet this enforced
religion does not act more sternly upon the choice of music in Russia,
than does the free Dogmatic-Emotionalism seen in Ocean Grove, N. J. Here
you find response to the same musical type that satisfied Russian
audiences of a Dogmatic-Emotional character. Ocean Grove inhabitants do
not pray in public stations, but no car runs on Sunday; no wagons
deliver goods on the Sabbath, the rules which govern conduct and musical
production in Russia, are not more strictly obeyed than are those which
frown upon Sunday amusement in Ocean Grove, or dictate its musical
supply. Strange to note, the Catholic element is more open in its
"desecration" of the Sabbath, than is the Protestant element. This may
be accounted for by the larger degree of Ideo-Motor activity among
Catholic groups, notwithstanding the strength of the Church hold upon
the fidelity of its members.

The Dogmatic-Emotional groups "need" a music to correspond to their
type, and only such music is successful with them. Many years in church
circles have proved to us the real desire or "need" of hymns and sacred
songs, as a satisfaction of this type's yearnings.

                      _The Rationalistic Group._

Now we come to a class of comparatively few representatives. It presents
a nearer approach to symmetry in its curve of mental and physical poise.
It responds to stimuli appealing through knowledge to the higher
intellectual processes. Ideals are stronger than their physical
manifestations; the idea is more important than the model; the type is
less affected by common stimuli; it secludes itself in contemplation, in
more cool investigation of its own responses; it seeks food for mental
labor, with time for detailed analysis of that work. All this means a
more normal equilibrium between periods of high motion and rest; it
means that a smaller chance of "disturbance" is encountered by this
type, and consequently a smaller "need" of *rhythmic* music. The problem
opera will satisfy it. In less need of marked rhythm, the analysis of
new musical form will occupy these minds, regardless of the lack of
either rhythmic or harmonious effects. The smallness of the
Rationalistic group is indicated by the unpopularity of rationalistic
composition. Opera managements produce the new "rationalistic" works,
but they make up their financial losses by the Ideo-Emotional works like
Faust, Carmen, Cavaleria Rusticana, Madam Butterfly and most of the
beloved works of the popular operatic repertoire.

Thus we see that if music is a human need, it is a need greatest among
the Ideo-motor and Ideo-Emotional types, or among the lower and middle
classes chiefly. The Dogmatic-Emotional type needs a music of its own,
and never fails to produce it. The Rationalistic type, also needs its
music, because its rationalism has not yet extended to an absolute
perfection of equilibrium between dissipation and integration of bodily
forces, and wherever abnormality of pulse exists, there musical rhythm
is "needed." Even were this theory of musical need not admitted, the
genuine love of music constitutes a need. So intense a yearning,
unsatisfied, cannot be beneficial to the human system. Whether we admit
music as a necessary part of human pleasure, or as a necessary stimulus
to human rhythm of bodily motions, its "need" will scarcely be denied in
the face of its constant demand and supply. Music reinforces human
energy, aids in the control and order of the mind, elevates the
conception of life, and furnishes repose for the overstimulated nerves
of urban communities. Placing music then where you will, it belongs
among those "better materials for storing, conveying and transforming
energy"\[27\] and its wise application may lead to surprising results,
in the conservation of faculties, now doomed to decay under the law of
diminishing returns.

That some change in the bodily molecules takes place as a result of
musical indulgence is believed by the author. The change in the pulse
rate before and after a musical performance indicates an effect upon the
circulation. The same time spent in listening to a lecture, shows less
freedom from tension. This was shown in the 84 experiments with working
girls. The 103 benefit tests upon revolutionary audiences showed marked
effects in calming power: ten years' experience in church choirs, showed
the vast superiority of service with music, over service without music,
in calming excitable congregations and in rousing phlegmatic ones;
ninety-one consecutive experiments at Coney Island demonstrated that
music can calm revolt, and change irritation to tranquillity; over three
hundred concert studies in Russia and in the United States have shown
marked increase in the normality of expression in audiences, after an
evening of music, and twelve years of experience in teaching music, have
shown so decided results in greater health and happiness in pupils, that
music as a human "need" appears to us to be established beyond doubt.

The Federal government of our United States may not be able under its
Constitution to institute Schools of Music, but the states should begin
to give more consideration to State Schools of Music. If the U. S.
Government is constitutionally unable to maintain National Schools of
Music, any comparison with European governments so licensed by their
constitutions, would be unjust and misleading. The statistics given are
intended merely to show what the various governments are doing along the
line of national support of musical culture, and no comparison is
attempted. Our States and cities are expending vast sums upon music. The
contention of the author, however, is that State Musical Colleges will
not produce a national type of music, and that the highest ideal rests
in a Federal control of musical culture. When music can be regarded as a
national need, and not merely as a social diversion, the Federal
government may see its way clear to a Federal support of musical
education. Music as an important measure in social control, and as an
equally important factor in individual health, belongs under the eye of
the national head. With the faint hope that this place will sometime be
granted to music, we submit this work.

FOOTNOTES:

\[26\] An atrocious murder had been committed by one of this group
during the week and the Mission Superintendent warned us by telegram of
serious revolt and danger.

\[27\] Professor Giddings' "Law of Increasing and Diminishing Returns"
would apply here as elsewhere.

                              CHAPTER IV.

                  TONEUROLOGY: A NEW BRANCH OF STUDY.

Humanity then must maintain its pulse in a
rhythmic-stimulation-and-repose-for-distribution system. This can best
be done by the greater exercise of the emotional nature, and by the
indulgence of romantic ideals, for emotions are pulse-lifters, dragging
the stagnant life motions up to a normal mean rhythm. The man or nation,
whose pulse is kept most constantly keyed up to the normal, is the man
or nation which achieves the finest results. Our four national examples,
England, France, Germany, and Italy, demonstrate these emotional
products. Germany leads in her quality of musical (or emotional) output,
because she led during the century in her sufferings, prepared, as they
were, by so much of heart breaking experience during the preceding
century. France comes next. Her national emotions have been weakened in
tragic elements by the love of the spectacular, by the intellectual need
of vivid pictures and colors, and by the assertiveness and pride of an
ancestral supremacy, hard to subdue to the state of tender romance and
heart tragedy, which characterized Germany's strong and sentimental
temperament. After France comes Italy, emotional, poetic, merry-hearted,
making a farce of tragedy because her century's life produced so little
national sadness. Only in recent years has it come to be felt that the
mean rhythm of Germany can become like the mean rhythm of any nation,
even of Italy, if the depths or motions are sounded as were Germany's.
England brings up the rear, her century's mean rhythm being far below
the high water mark. This is shown by the delicate comedies, and naive
sentimentalism of her music, which are the fit measure of her national
pulse rate of emotionalism.

Music, as a human need, carries us deep into the secrets of life, and
will in time open the way for a new science. Music is not the name for
this new branch of knowledge, as the study would involve an exhaustive
investigation of nervous reactions in their social and individual
relations to sound vibrations. We would suggest the name "Toneurology"
because tone is understood in all modern languages, and "neuros" has the
same advantage. This study would involve research along entirely new
lines, such as an investigation of motions in bodily organs;
mathematical estimation of the vibration value of each pulse beat, and
of the sums of tone vibrations in chords, upon one instrument and upon
many, as in an orchestra; the rate of increase or decrease of the pulse
after contact with tonal force, with approximate computation of the time
that the latter can maintain a normal pulse, and the necessary frequency
of its application. The research student in this new science must have a
working knowledge of physics, biology, psychology, sociology, harmony,
counterpoint, musical history, political history and physiology, with a
new study of the Human Will. We should thus add a new science to the
group of exact concrete sciences.

It is with no little diffidence that we suggest this as a new branch of
study. There are indications that universities adopting Music into their
lists of studies, recognize the need of Music's closer touch with
scientific courses. If Music is ever to outgrow its swaddling clothes of
sentimental and frivolous superficiality, and mere amusement conception,
it must clearly manifest its scientific dignity, and its inseparable
connection with physics, sociology, biology and psychology. It must take
its place among those studies which encourage scientific tests and
lifelong research. It must leave its hitherto "divine aspect" on the
rubbish heap, along with the "divine rights" of kings, magic, ancestor
worship, and ghost theories. We believe some secrets of life
preservation will be found in Toneurology.

The curious effect of Music upon groups suggests a possible counterpart
of such reaction upon individuals. Music, once regarded in terms of
motion, with laws of motion likewise applied to the bodily integrations,
the path opens out clear and true.

The fact that men, in spite of all the great scientific discoveries,
harden and fade with age, tends to prove that the human body has not
been completely envisaged by any or all of them. We offer here a study
which includes many of the abstract and concrete sciences but directed
towards a new combination, *i. e.*, tone and nerve, to be tested and
quantitatively measured under the laws of motion instead of under the
laws of perception and of appreciation. We take Music out of the field
of ideals entirely, and place it upon a level with rhythm establishers,
incident forces, and pulse fillers. Our statistics\[28\] show the
sub-conscious appreciation of Music as a human need by the countries
represented, and those governments show a larger proportion of internal
unrest where musical provision is small. This test, although indicative,
is far from satisfactory, since no provision, adequate to act constantly
upon the life forces, has as yet been made.

FOOTNOTES:

\[28\] See page 102.

                               PART II.

            THE INTER-REACTIONS OF MUSIC AND NATIONAL LIFE.




                _Introductory Note to Chapters V-VII._

The following outlines of musical productions during the Nineteenth
century in Italy, England, Germany, France, and the United States, are
intended to show how precisely the depth and nature of disturbances are
measurable by the Music of each country. Each musical type pictures the
"need" of the nation in question, and is peculiar to the character of
each human aggregate.

The statistics received by us and presented later in this work,\[29\]
indicate not only the extent to which Music is now regarded in its
utility aspect by different nations, but also show the protection given
to this as-yet-misunderstood force. In this day of general culture, the
reader's acquaintance with the main outlines of the political and
economic history of these peoples may be assumed. The Music of each
nation will be seen to picture closely the national emotions consequent
upon the national stimuli.

FOOTNOTES:

\[29\] The statistics upon which these conclusions are based will be
found in Appendix C and E.

                              CHAPTER V.

                          ITALY (1800-1913).

National Music is the language of national emotion. The latter is the
result and reflection of economic stimuli. The Music of a period
exhibits the characteristics of national disturbances at every point in
economic history.

Italy, subjected to a much lighter form of stimuli than England or
Germany, has not yet ceased to manifest her short-duration-excitability,
her love of the merely sensuous in beauty, which shows that the ancient
intense disturbances of her real depths have not been repeated in recent
times.

The period from 1800 to 1848 presents a mental state of little
disturbance, the Italian social mind having not yet awakened from its
Eighteenth century submissiveness and inaction. It will be interesting
to analyze emotions of this period and their expression in Music.

Was tragedy the dominant factor in economic life? No.Â The social
pressure of this period was light, even merry, with the lightness of
lazy enjoyment in an unambitious mind. Curiosity was awakened but it was
in its wonder stage, acting slowly upon hints received from the cynicism
of France, from the power of labor ideas from England, and from the
disrespect for Papal authority coming from Germany. Like a mirror for
the reflection of the sharp but shallow emotions produced by these
stimuli, were the musical works of Rossini constituting the public
emotional valves. The "Barbiere di Sevilla," with its witching humor,
its delicate satire, its political allusions, and its portraits of the
life of the nation, was a constant source of delight to unreflecting
Italian thought. Rossini's skill in the opera-buffa was marked. For the
party of the Catholic faith he composed his "Stabat Mater," equally
fine, but picturing even in these more serious emotion-valves, those
superficial moulds in which the public thought was cast. The works of
Donizetti were no less bewitching and no less trivial, while the soft
and sentimental character of Bellini's genius found answering echoes in
every Italian ideal. Dramatic passion was not lacking in "Norma," but
the atmosphere of even this glimpse of future depth in Italian
emotionalism, was never quite free from the weak traits of Bellini's
school. Vocalism extraordinary was the demand of the opera, and the
display in voice technique was remarkable. This was not, however, out of
place in comedy opera, where depth of sentiment never reached the modern
ridiculous spectacle of vocalized heart breakings, tuneful murders, and
death gasps upon assigned tone pitches. The over-dressed orchestrations
of present day operas, the senseless howling of a single voice above the
combined vibrations of a hundred or more active instruments, the absurd
idea of profound *vocal* passion, had not yet distorted the original
operatic idea, which still dwelt in the true realm of its effectiveness,
namely, that of the presentation of the lovely, the gay, the pathetic,
the comic. The supremacy of the human voice as a vehicle of expression
was in no way endangered by the abnormal taste of our own day. Toward
the middle of the Nineteenth century, as the spirit of the time deepened
in intensity, operas of a more serious nature held their share of public
attention. Donizetti's "Lucrezia Borgia" was presented in 1844, after
several others of dramatic color, among which Rossini's "William Tell"
and "Othello" were works of real dramatic power.

For several centuries the State had exercised control over musical
education in Italy. In Rome, from its earliest days, institutions of
Music had existed. Music was regarded as a necessity rather than as a
luxury. Such will be the attitude assumed toward Music in the future,
when psychologists and sociologists shall have studied more deeply into
the relations of artificially created rhythm to bodily rhythm, and also
into the need of re-establishing disturbed bodily rhythm, manifested in
the abnormal pulse during emotional states of mind.

During the Eighteenth century each of the large towns of Italy supported
its own opera house and one cannot estimate to what extent these emotion
valves were instrumental in the easy subjugation of the people.

Were Music to be banished from any one of the civilized countries today,
anarchy might very shortly result. Who can say that the frenzied license
which followed Cromwell's suppression of musical indulgence, was not due
in part to the closing of England's emotion valves?

The present craze for the violent action dances, represented in the
turkey-trot and the tango, is, in the opinion of the author, a natural
expression of the human need of pronounced rhythm. It is a sub-conscious
effort to supply the lack of pronounced rhythmic stimulus in economic
life. The late tendency in musical composition has also been away from
the old rhythmic accent and in the direction of disturbed harmonies, and
lack of restful melodies. Thus the over-stimulated nerves of humanity
have been exposed to an unchecked abnormality of their motions. The
dances above mentioned partly remedy this defect in bodily action, and
restore relative equilibrium--hence the craze for this form of
amusement. Notice, however, that people will not take part in either of
these dances for a moment, *without the Music*. The movement alone is
not the need; the Music is the chief factor, the rhythm of which is
merely accented and accentuated by the movements. These dances may be
saving the sanity of countless thousands. Why then the suggested ban on
this human need? If these dance forms are not desirable, then sweep away
the present musical abominations and bring melody and--above
all--*marked rhythm* within reach of the masses.

We shall now proceed to take up the thread of Italian musical life at
1848 when social pressure was assuming a darker hue, acute even in its
short-lived terrors, as befits the Italian temperament. This
temperament, unlike that of Germany under tragic conditions, must either
die in despair or recover quickly. It is ever in short runs between sobs
and a jest, ever in fiery moments and merry half-hours, ever child-like
at heart, yet marvellously gifted, beauty-loving and sentimental. Italy
might not live through a "Thirty Years War," but with the inspiration of
the right leaders, she might create a new Roman Republic, under the
forceful stimulus of oft-relieved bursts of enthusiasm.

The strenuous years from 1848 to 1860, sufficiently aroused the Italian
spirit to produce much that has since developed to the credit of the
country. A deeper tone had been struck in Italian ideals, though not
sufficiently deep to revolutionize completely the nation's taste for
those old forms of Music, so essentially a part of the melody loving
race.

Still tragedy shadowed the public mind, and Verdi pictured these gloomy
years in the operas "Rigoletto" (1851), "La Traviata" (1853), "Il
Trovatore" (1853), and "Aida" (1871). Verdi was the idol of the people,
because his genius fitted into the conditions of his time, illustrating
the theory of the present investigation.

The ignorance of the Italians, patricians and peasantry alike, made the
functioning of Italy's really great literary works during the Nineteenth
century, impotent as stimuli productive of national and contemporaneous
reactions. Of late, however, a new educational impulse has been given by
the establishment of the public school. This is certain greatly to
increase stimuli products in the Italian nervous system, and the Italian
need for a corresponding complexity in its Music is even now being
manifested.

With the installation of transport facilities to the new world, a fresh
and somewhat romantic stimulus has been given to the Italian people. The
letters of absent relatives reflect world news, and widen mental views
for whole villages. Besides, railroads have opened up new intercourse
between the various parts of Italy, and the telegraph, electric light,
new home inventions, industrial occupations, factories and so forth,
each in turn--or at times all together--have disturbed the bodily rhythm
by increased stimulation, so that the late demands for realism in France
and Germany did indeed find partial echo in Italy, in "The Cavalleria
Rusticana" of Mascagni, a spectacular but not profound opera, which
aroused amazing enthusiasm by its characteristic presentation of
familiar forms. These were new in their realistic color, yet old in
Italian life, and they pictured in their dramatic action, the stronger
taste of the day. Puccini mirrored the still deeper stimulus of his
time, in his "Manon Lescaut" (1893), "La Boheme" (1896), "La Tosca"
(1900) and "Madam Butterfly" (1904), the latter inconsistent in its
mixture of tragedy with soft Italian tunefulness, for even Puccini fails
to discard the characteristic tunefulness of his race, in his too
evident striving for such discordant effects, as, however,
unintentionally represent the discordant elements in Italy's modern
civilization.

These works show that Italy has awakened from her lazy sleep under the
rule of foreigners, and that she is now beginning to feel the stir of
larger economic disturbances, in those depths of the social mind,
already so thoroughly stirred and active in France and Germany.

The care given to the musical needs of Italy by her central authorities
is shown later in this book.\[30\]

FOOTNOTES:

\[30\] See Appendices C and E.

                              CHAPTER VI.

                         ENGLAND (1800-1913).

The history of England during the Nineteenth century presents but little
disturbance at home, along lines calculated so to move mental depths, as
to produce complicated re-establishing forms in musical rhythm. Labor
troubles harassed the national thought in their usual superficial
manner, rarely causing the loss of a night's sleep, or the disturbance
of appetite, and the many reforms in the interest of trade, affected but
slowly the depths of emotionalism. It has ever been a noticeable fact,
that impersonal or distant calamities but slightly arouse the national
emotions. People read and comment upon the slaughter of women and
children, and at the same time pleasurably partake of a good dinner. The
fact is, that emotions are not easily aroused by distant stimuli, and
people also respond with ever decreasing force to unchanging present
stimuli.

Present day labor agitations have already passed the boundaries of mild
stimulation, and are fast becoming emotional forces which are evidently
driving headlong into governmental change. Capitalism has run its
oppressive course, and for the near future a genuinely soul-tearing
agitation is preparing, which, if allowed to rip open the veins of the
nation, will produce the stimuli, that eventually will endow English
Music with a richness and depth, superior to that of any other country.
British emotions have been sleeping deeply under two centuries of mild
emotional stimuli, but when they do stretch their strong fibres for
action, then one may indeed tremble for the old systems of English
government; and then also the great musical triumphs of Belgium and
Germany may be surpassed. Considering the mental attitude of the British
community during the Nineteenth century, and at the present day, it was
to be expected that Balfe's "Lurline" should represent the nation's
rhythmic need up to 1870, and that the musical works of Benedict ("The
Lily of Killarney," and the oratorios of "St.Â Peter" and "St.Â Cecilia"),
should have found popular appreciation up to 1885. But the composer who
best illustrates England's characteristic activity,--that of
colonization,--its military and political aspects, the clean minded and
religious attitude of Victoria's rule, and the general lightly
disturbing characteristics of Nineteenth century economic stimuli, was
Sir Arthur Sullivan in his charming works, "The Mikado," "Pinafore,"
"The Pirates of Penzance," "Patience," "The Yeoman of the Guard,"
"Iolanthe" and "The Sorcerer." England did much in this century to
advance the culture of Music within her borders. The Royal head was
patron of such institutions as The Royal Academy of South Kensington,
The Royal College of Music, The Guildhall School of Music and Trinity
College. These are in general supported by government grants, donations,
and subscribing patrons.\[31\] The national faith is still strongly
expressed in the extensive cultivation of the oratorio, while the
secular ideal has not yet become sufficiently abnormal to genuinely
encourage Music of the present French and German schools. This is
probably because England's emotions are not in need of such
representations, since they are still adequately reflected in the
lighter works of Italian genius, as expressed by Verdi\[32\] and in her
own lovely light operas. It seems more than a coincidence that the Music
of a country so marvellously reflects the character of the economic
stimuli of its period, as does Great Britain's.

That England has a genuine care for the development of musical culture
in her realm is shown by the letter from the Board of Education,
Whitehall, London.\[33\]

FOOTNOTES:

\[31\] "American History and Encyclopedia of Music," volume on Foreign
Music, p.Â 206.

\[32\] We leave out of account his "Falstaff."

\[33\] See Appendix E.

                             CHAPTER VII.

                         GERMANY (1800-1913).

The world today is still perceiving in Germany's Music, the intensity of
Germany's emotions, as aroused during the Seventeenth and Eighteenth
centuries.

Let us see if Germany's tragic emotionalism has produced its likeness in
Music, thus wisely furnishing an outlet for revolutionary energy, and at
the same time wielding a powerful and tranquillizing wand over a growing
restlessness of spirit. Let us see whether the great tragic depths of
emotional life through which Germany has passed, during at least
two-thirds of the Nineteenth century, support our thesis by having
resulted in the creation of a deep and tragic Music, with revolutionary
harmony at its summit.

Ludwig von Beethoven's genius was such as greatly to influence the
entire Nineteenth century Music. He reigned supreme in the symphony and
sonata fields, where dignified composition found its most fitting
musical forms. The public was, at the close of the Eighteenth century,
actively supporting its own musical market through publishing houses and
public concerts, so that the exclusive patronage of the nobility could
be largely dispensed with by composers, to their own infinite advantage,
by making possible a wider psychic expression in their works, and in the
production of Music of more pronounced national color. Pensions were
still granted to noted composers, but these did not fetter them as
completely as they had formerly done. That Germany, at that time, could
produce a character so simple and noble, as was manifested by
Beethoven's life, suggests the religious stimuli which acted upon his
parents. All of his early works exhibit this chaste adherence to the
established ideals in Music. Beautiful depths are revealed everywhere,
and a solemn earnestness pervades his lightest productions. We love and
revere Beethoven, unconsciously feeling some strong, pure and noble
influence which was awakening in the German mind.\[34\]

The early years of the Nineteenth century brought, with their political
disturbance, a taste for the old knightly ballads. These were, with the
"Lieder," which so closely pictured the newly rising fearlessness of the
people, beautifully expressed in the genius of Franz Schubert. At this
time the social position of the nobility was as insecure as was the
political peace of all Europe. The rise of the people's voice was shown
in the importance given to the "folk-song." Great emphasis was now laid
upon the texts of these songs themselves, thus again subjecting Music to
poetry, the people's speech, as opposed to what was the rule in the
Eighteenth century, when texts meant nothing to the empty-headed
aristocracy, and sensuous tones and bewildering technique held sway. Yet
rhythm still remains marked, and the tunes are still full of sentimental
suggestion. Song is not the vehicle of intense emotion, and indeed at
this period, emotion had not yet reached a point of intensity in German
economic life. The great emotional possibilities of Germany were still
subdued by petty powers, and the "Lied" sufficiently expressed the
social pressure of the time, when the people did not care much who ruled
them, so long as there was enough to eat, and so long as good beer
accompanied their merriment. Tragedy was in action, but had not yet dug
her claws into the depths of German emotion. It was not the time for
deep dramatic opera. The prevailing taste craved the romantic quality
suggested by war heroes of the Napoleonic type. Napoleon's almost
unvarying triumph embellished his reputation with god-like, impossible
attributes. Finally his romantic sway and sad end awakened echoes of
ancient chivalry in the thoughts woven about his name. As a matter of
fact, Schubert's works were not published before 1821, because the
German musician was still dominated by the Italian school. The disturbed
period before this date was unproductive of nationalism in any form. The
mental color of 1821 was essentially lyrical, and Schubert's songs
struck the right note in public feeling from this date on. New forms
were arising on every hand. Classic themes had had their day. Schiller
and Goethe had inspired art and literature with new ideals. Carl von
Weber exhibited new methods in his epoch marking German opera "Der
Freischutz," in 1821. This opera sounded the death knell of the reign of
Italian Music in Germany. In this work von Weber dared to picture the
real life of the German people, and to give the folk-song a prominent
position, though he weakened the presentation by the introduction of
supernatural effects.

Note the public mind in this success! Germany wanted its own texts, its
own life, its own style represented in the Music it was to enjoy. When
had the Germans ever dared to show so strange a tendency before? Then
came the "heroic" opera with its silly plot, sustained musical
invention, new method of treating the recitative as part of the melody,
and greater richness of orchestral effects, in which one sees the first
touches of real dramatic instrumental treatment. Von Weber was the
flag-pole for the banner of Wagner, and his genius is a true reflection
of Germany's social pressure. Up to 1859 Spohr exerted a serious and
dignified influence upon the violin art of Germany, but his heavier
works did not reach the importance of von Weber's, which had truly
illustrated the mental tendency of the time. In works of great beauty
and merit Kreutzer, Lortzing and Nicolai represented different phases of
this social mind.

Robert Schumann did not contribute to the actual need of the people
until 1840-1841 when he produced a large number of exquisite songs. His
piano works, however, exhibit more originality and greater strength and
depth; they indicate a greater mastery of the classic ideal, show
extended chord effects, and present broadness of idea. A new feature
here was the syncopated accent.\[35\] This was the beginning of that
breaking of the rhythmic effect which, to our mind, has not only been
detrimental to the beneficial results of Music as a
rhythm-re-establisher, but which has also been the forerunner of our
American "craze" for "ragtime" Music. It was an "out-of-order" effect,
and came from an "out-of-order" mind, for poor Schumann died insane at
Bonn in 1856. Schumann, more than any other composer of his time,
connected economic stimuli with emotionalism, and the titles he gave his
piano works, revealed his belief that Music could be made to express
definite conceptions. Schumann not only felt the need of rhythmic works,
but he also produced them, and the richness of his harmony is more
pronounced in effect than Schubert's. Yet even Schumann did not sound
the depths of German tragedy, because the social pressure was not yet
charged with tragic stimuli. The century had not yet wrung the German
heart. It was still submissive, although in fearful contemplation of its
possibilities, nor had it as yet been aroused into active fury for
national unity. Tragedy alone could fully move those much tried Teutonic
depths. The interest manifested in Schumann's musical periodical "Die
Neue Zeitschrift fÃ¼r Musik" proved that the growth of musical knowledge
in public culture was keeping pace with the increasing complication of
economic life, and with the growing intensity of its emotion-producing
influences. As complicated as the forces which succeed in arousing
national emotions, are the musical constructions which are
contemporaneous with such forces. Mendelssohn reflected the reactionary
feeling of one part of public thought, but he did not dominate in his
field as did von Weber and Schumann. Bach and HÃ¤ndel influenced his
work, and lent it the chief beauty evident in his many charming
productions. His own life of ease and wealth prevented his being
subjected to those harrowing experiences, so necessary to the soil of
genius. For these reasons he cannot represent more than a certain phase
of that whole social mind, which found its complete reflection in
Schumann. During the period before 1849, it is significant that the
waltz and the operetta should have begun their shallow but necessary
existences in German life. Progress and prosperity had given a kind of
careless capacity for enjoyment to the people, and a tendency toward
unhealthy sluggishness of the national pulse. But we must notice that
the public demanded the most pronounced rhythm as a means of imparting
to the body an *excitation* of a higher degree of rhythmic motion. This
was supplied perfectly in the waltz. Was this the first step backward to
Grecian rhythmic exercises? The dance is as old as human life, but the
waltz is peculiarly sensuous and suavely rhythmic, and its development
by Johann Strauss came at an extraordinarily receptive moment in social
desire. One must attempt to place one's own consciousness in the
imaginary body of a person living in those times, in order to feel the
need of the waltz. As our own time is near enough in stimuli similar to
that period before 1848, the feat may not be impossible. The younger
Strauss reflected most perfectly the restful period, which followed the
unification of the Germans.

But Richard Wagner marks the highest point of German social pressure.
This master did not defeat our thesis in the least degree, even in his
early works, which were as conservative as any others of the times.
Until 1842 his life was unsettled and his career doubtful. "Rienzi,"
given at Dresden in this year, proved a great success, and in 1843 is
"Fliegende Hollender" showed the first positive adoption of
*revolutionary ideas* in Music, although "Rienzi" contained some
significant references to freedom and to the power of the people. Wagner
certainly held the radical convictions of the time, and his later works
were undoubtedly inspired by the stirring stimuli of then existing
social pressure. In 1850 "Lohengrin" was produced with great success.
Many trials tormented the spirit of Wagner until 1861, when his
"TannhÃ¤user" was produced in Paris amid the howling of radical mobs, who
literally forced it into failure. All this time his operas had been a
part of Germany's operatic repertoire, but his greatest strokes in
musical revolution were yet unfelt. Humiliation and poverty, malice and
active enmity, assailed him at every point. Yet bravely defiant, *truly
reflecting the German temper of that period*, he succeeded in gaining
the patronage of King Ludwig II of Bavaria, and in 1865 "Tristan" was
produced. This was a work which entirely *overturned the traditional
structure of operatic ideals* and made it possible for his enemies to
deprive him of his hoped-for refuge in the King's favor. But in 1868
"Die MeistersÃ¤nger" was performed at Munich. This work presented a
genuine plea for *greater freedom* in art creations and exhibited a
perfection of musical treatment, combined with *daring innovations*,
which to this day constitute a lasting charm. After many misfortunes,
but with a consciousness that his works had established German opera
upon a new and ideal basis, Wagner realized his dreams in the production
of "Der Ring des Nibelungen" in his own theatre at Bayreuth, in August,
1876. Note how close in time was Wagner's climax, in his activity of
*revolutionary Music*, and the triumph of united Germany over the
disdainful powers of Europe! At one and the same period (1876), we see
Wagner established as the German emotional dictator, and German
solidarity in Prussia's settled supremacy. At this time also, after a
most distressing period of bloody warfare and mental torture, all Europe
was at comparative peace. Does not our thesis hold good?

Now in the years of progress and peace from 1876 to 1882, what happens
to the mind of Wagner, as we behold him finally freed from toil,
poverty, enmity and humiliation? The same thing that happened to the
social mind under the suave influence of constitutional government,
headed by a wise and good king. Stimuli became softer, and the social
mind became more complicated in sense-perceptions, more sentimental,
with a dramatic expression less colored by earthly strife and blood,
more refined by spiritual and intellectual habits, and lo! in 1882
"Parsifal" marks the last production of the mighty Wagner. This work
presents a decided falling back from the standards he had created in
spontaneity and thematic development. The fact and the cause are plain.
The cause of the "falling off" is to be found in the absence of deeply
stirring economic stimuli, in the social pressure of the quiet years
during which this work was in preparation. Let the historical facts
speak for themselves. Assuredly the day will come, when sociologists and
psychologists will recognize as a scientific phenomenon, and one
admitting of quantitative psychiatric measurement, the relation between
social nerve disturbance in emotion, and social tranquillization in
Music, with its uncountable millions of vibrations which strike the
nerves, and act in ways now seemingly mysterious, upon the life of a
group.

With Wagner's death, attention descends the mount of achievement along
emotional lines in Germany. Brahms, Strauss, Bruch, Bruchner and other
recent composers, all cling to the robe of Wagner. Here and there these
composers attempted alterations which distorted his idea, but succeeded
only in picturing the milder intellectual stimuli which now ruled German
thought.

FOOTNOTES:

\[34\] Even Beethoven illustrates the progressive idea of the time, in
the evolution of free initiative in new forms, exhibited in his
symphonies, which are progressive steps in greater freedom of treatment,
from the first, to the revolutionary introduction of choruses in the
ninth.

\[35\] Beethoven's exquisite works for stringed instruments show
syncopation effects, but the hard, syncopated "accent" seems first
evident as sharp contrasts, in the works of Schumann.

                             CHAPTER VIII.

                          FRANCE (1800-1913).

France, as a most progressive nation, presents a splendid musical system
and a correspondingly good product of musical culture. The French
national mind is peculiarly sensitive to modern social pressure. Let
this pressure be relieved by musical rhythm and France will bound ahead
in musical paths as she has in so many other lines. In money
expenditure, she stands high, but this expenditure is made largely in
Paris. Culture in a State must be considered in its relation to all of
its inhabitants, and while France shows a large absolute expenditure,
her *per capita* expenditure is relatively low. This expenditure,
however, is independent of private donations, which have no place in
State control, and which are a detriment rather than a benefit to the
general public, representing as they do, a control by the princely
"fads" of a ruling class. National musical genius is expressed in the
degree to which the national emotions are aroused by national stimuli.
Had France reacted to her social pressure in the same manner as did
Germany with practically the same stimuli, our history might have
properly closed with Germany's triumph. But France had received quite a
different mental preparation from that which tortured the German heart
in the 18th century, and the nature of French emotionalism was both far
less sincerely tragic, and far more highly intellectual at every phase,
than was Germany's. The common people of France were indeed subjected to
genuine misery before the downfall of the monarchy, but they were ever
arrayed in the glory of a conquering nation,--a leading power, conscious
of its own supremacy in European affairs, although the peasantry were
ground down with taxes, and made to be the overburdened supporters of a
vicious royalty; yet the tone of the public mind, while somewhat
critical, was chiefly domineering, and capable of great enthusiasm. Free
thought was still in the freshness of youth, so that oppressions, as
they came, were analyzed and denounced even while endured. Germany had
never thought of doing this until 1848. The troubles of France were a
direct consequence of the desires of the common people, and were not so
much brought upon them by outside forces, as they were voluntarily
encountered and even created, by themselves, in their conscious
development of a new idea of popular rule. France wanted to do great and
new deeds before she was mentally ready for such achievements, and her
trials were of her own making. This fact does not lessen her emotional
response to her social pressure, but it does color it with a certain
control even in its deepest action. Thus it was with France, Napoleon
draining her soil of its best blood, but crowning the nation with
laurels. The philosophical spirit aroused by the genius of Voltaire did
not weaken even under this glory, and the French mind, although wearied
by the revolution, rested only a moment in the re-actions under
Napoleon. The reckless Republic was but the first sign of the new
national temper, and--although all Europe united to subdue it, and
Napoleon's Empire patted it into momentary quiet with an encouragement
of all forms of progress--the national mind had tasted freedom and the
old tolerance of royalty was dying. During the fourteen years of his
reign, Napoleon gave substantial benefits to France. Continental Europe
bent in submission at his feet. Although the French people hated the old
idea of monarchy, they could not deny the advantages which France
received from his powerful genius. His death in 1821 left his former
subjects in a bad way, the people striving for constitutional
government, against the allies in favor of absolutism. But little by
little, certain advances were made by the people, in a gradual assertion
of their opinions. Revolution was a constant menace in the social
pressure of the half century following Napoleon's downfall.

The rebellious fanaticism underlying each and all of civilized
manifestations, is certain to strike new and staggering blows at the
commercialism of our times. We feel as though terror and its causes in
religion were lurking very near the surface of the world politics today.

Along many lines France has not lost her old ascendency in leadership,
but her discipline has perhaps been too weak in the direction of dogged
persistence. Her actions possibly have been governed at home and in her
colonization efforts, by too much of a fatalistic policy, to give strong
promise of any continuous establishment of power under the people's
rule. Yet much is to be expected, from the daring courage, enthusiasm,
and intellectual splendor of the French mind.

The whole country has furnished a strange contrast to German social
reaction, for under the same stimuli the one wept while the other
laughed. During the first forty years of the Nineteenth century, the
piano virtuoso, with his superficial flourishes of finger technique
reigned supreme over instrumental Music in France. The sonata, so
representative of dignity and noble sentiment, was accorded only an
obscure position during this superficial period, and the short piano
piece took its place. On the other hand, performers gave stimulus to
improvements in piano manufacture, as well as to composition of piano
works. Liszt and Thalberg dazzled the Parisians, and the public mind
demanded no deeper expression of its emotional disturbance than that
which was represented in pianistic display. After 1831 Chopin lived in
Paris, and his works continued to express the French love of the dance,
of ornamental display, and of delicate sentimentality. But in 1830 the
romantic movement had made itself felt in Music under Berlioz, who
produced a Music which suited perfectly the hot-headed revolutionary
tendencies of this time. Orchestration attained a tone-color, a new
technical possibility under Berlioz's manipulation, and the bizarre
aspects of the then economic life were exactly reflected in his
*revolutionary effects*. His book on instrumentation, published in 1844,
became an authority, and he influenced musicians to attempt new forms,
however these might be opposed to classical traditions. Berlioz desired
to invent astonishing instrumental effects, and did so, but his efforts
did not win him lasting popularity, although he is the real founder of
modern French Music.

But it is in the field of grand opera that we must look for those
amazingly accurate reflections of economic and social pressure, as
evidenced in the Music of France during the nineteenth century.
Cherubini contributed an earnest musicianship to French opera seria, but
he exhibits strong influences of foreign models. Napoleon encouraged
only the most trivial of the Italian operas; his attitude was naturally
disadvantageous to serious attempts in this field. Opera-comique began
to exhibit dramatic color under Mehul but it remained for Spontini to
reflect the Napoleonic regime, in opera which glorified the heroic in
all its splendor. His French works "La Vestale" (1807), "Fernando
Cortez" (1809), and "Olympie" (1819), reflect the mental attitude of the
time, but true to this reflection, also show the lack of real depths of
emotions not yet touched in France by the social pressure of the time.
The opera-comique more truly represented public sentiment in the works
of Boildieu, in "Le Calife de Bagdad," and "La Dame Blanche" which
manifest a more serious tone and refinement than had as yet been known
in this field. Auber, however, knew best how to call forth French
admiration. His fame commenced about 1820, when ideals were beginning to
be colored by a darker hue of seriousness, and his "Fra Diavolo" and "Le
Domino Noir" exhibit his fine gift of characterization. Herold's "Zampa"
presented new orchestral elements, and is still very popular in America
and England. Grand opera of the heroic character received a strong
impulse at the hands of Rossini, (who lived at Paris after 1824), in his
French work "Guillaume Tell" (produced in 1829). Dramatic expression
finds here some scope, although without any great depth, and Auber's "La
Muette de Portici" (1828), more nearly expresses the revolutionary
feeling of the people, for the subject of the Music is *popular revolt
against tyranny*. The works of Meyerbeer carry French grand opera to its
highest point; his "Robert le Diable" (1831), and "Les Huguenots" (1836)
fit into the expression of those years admirably, while his last work
"L'Africaine" (1864), shows all of that ferment in French thought which
was so inevitably leading up to the Franco-Prussian War of 1870.

The dramatic events of French Nineteenth century history had produced
the genuine histrionic instinct in musical composition; and the
complication of orchestral effects, was a natural expression of the
multiplicity of stimuli accompanying every economic impulse.
*Consistency* in Meyerbeer's Music was as conspicuous by its absence as
it was in the French economic world, where the abnormal, sensational,
religious and absurd were so inconsistently jumbled up with plans for a
stable constitutional government, and peaceful relations with Europe.
Simplicity was not to the taste of the time. Glaring colors and noisy
effects much more nearly reflected the social mode, and Meyerbeer
responded as the musician in him should have done, to the prevailing
social pressure. The greatest development was exhibited in the
orchestral dramatic expression, and the action in a scene began to take
a superior place above vocalization, in the formation of the Music
drama. This departure may be said to mark the beginning of the
degeneration of the real purpose of the opera.

With the reign of peace after the Franco-Prussian war, a new element
entered the musical productions of the time. Orchestral concerts
abounded. Church Music by Dubois, Gounod and Franck was of an excellent
character, in line with the increasing agitation over religious
questions. France needed rhythm, as a hungry man needs bread, and she
found it in a partial return to Bach, and to the still earlier masters
of sacred Music. Popular concerts were instituted for the benefit of the
people in 1861. These have continued their useful mission to the present
day. France has demanded that life shall be actually pictured in her
Music. This impossible demand is leading French Music far from the
relative characterizations as presented in Guonod's "Faust" and Bizet's
"Carmen," and into the ridiculous "tonal tears" region, where a printed
program is needed to inform the hearers, that the staccati of the
piccolo are meant to indicate the rain drops on my lady's brow, and not
intended to announce the squeal of a pig. Without the program, who would
know?

Towards the close of the century, there is a decline in the sensuous and
mystical elements, both in economic and in musical affairs. Gounod's
"Faust" in 1859 had reflected these qualities of the social mind, and
his "St.Â Cecilia Mass" in 1856 expressed the religious attitude of the
people. But the rise of the present Republic gave the sceptre into
sterner hands, and the skillful use of Music in characterization was
vividly expressed, in so far as it could be, in Bizet's "Carmen" in
1873. Saint Saens and Massenet show the intellectual refinement of the
period now ushered in, with its strong suggestions of dramatic feeling
so exquisitely expressed, yet clinging to ancient models in melodic
construction, and avoiding the harsh and bizarre effects lately
manifested in French tendencies. CesÃ¡r Franck, in his beautiful
oratorio, "Les Beatitudes" (produced in 1891), demonstrates the real
depth of religious sentiment existing under the intellectual adornments
of the French mind at this period, and the great depth, and musical
value of this work exhibit a fund of religious sentiment, which we do
not believe has been crushed by the recent separation of Church and
State, and which will show itself in revolt at no distant period.

The very latest operatic works of French composers are exhibiting a mad
desire for an expression of a national Music, which looks more like an
effort to root out the musical supremacy of Germany, than like a plan to
establish a genuine progression in French art. France would like to have
a Music all its own, be it ever so ugly, distorted, or bizarre. She
wants to lead in musical art, to tear up old models, to force a new-old
scale upon her half distracted people, and to over-dress the misshapen
things in absurd orchestral exaggeration, which so drowns the poor human
voice, that the helpless vocal organ is obliged to shout dramatic
phrases to a deafened audience, over the countless unrestrained
vibrations of a hundred or more madly ringing instruments. What a farce
it is! A grand opera presenting a modern girl of Paris, in a modern
shirt-waist, yelling common-place remarks to the accompaniment of a
monster band! But it must change. The human voice will come into its own
again, when the over-excited modern mentality shall have calmed itself
down to the normal. The orchestra will shrink to its diminutive and
correct position, as a mere suggestor of the harmony which supports the
voice, and the emotions of life will find their true relief in
accentuated rhythm, soothing melody, and noble harmonies. France is
still passing through, and she certainly will not come out of, her
transition period with the thing she is now trying to call "Music."

French pride in musical accomplishment is well exhibited in the aid
extended to this culture by State activity.\[36\]

FOOTNOTES:

\[36\] The statistics will be found in Appendix E.

                              CHAPTER IX.

                            UNITED STATES.

It is a matter for surprise and deep regret that the United States
Federal Government should show a lack of interest in musical education.
But our young country is not likely to remain for long behind smaller
lands. Our hope is secure in the fundamental generosity and wisdom of
our national mind, which now squanders vast sums upon musical diversion,
but spends nothing at all for the free musical education of its gifted
citizens.

We have in this country a strange mixture of races and of ideals, all
contributing something of Old World conditions, and combining to form a
new type. The people who struggled so bravely through the Eighteenth and
Nineteenth centuries were of various origins, but all came to the
struggle with tragedy of some kind or other implanted in their mental
composition. Emotions beat the pioneers into their one refuge, the
Church; even the ballad, simple as it was, found but scant room where
the prayer book lay. Pioneer life gave little ground for complication of
stimuli, until the Nineteenth century opened the gates of our country to
the industrial inventions, and to the discontent of foreign labor. A
subdued and almost religious atmosphere stifled emotions during the
first half of the Nineteenth century, but the waves of reform sweeping
over Europe found their way even here by 1861, and the Great Civil War
would have stirred us to our depths, had not the mighty currents of
feeling within us been kept in subjection by our Church habits. The few
valves of relief permitted to our people in the primitive vaudeville and
theatre productions, were not sufficient to offset the irritation of
quickly complicating economic stimuli. At this period our immigrant
population came from England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Denmark,
Belgium, Germany, Sweden, Norway and Switzerland. These immigrants
generally possessed cool heads, and were of fine stern characters,
skilled in various crafts, and they came to stay permanently. They
became one with our people, and our struggles were their struggles.
Italian opera and the higher intellectual diversions were later
additions to the pleasures of the rich, but the masses rarely shared in
such amusements, and the old-fashioned ballads, and the splendidly
developed hymnal Music furnished our only relief for emotional
disturbance. Yet this was endurable because of the beautiful hymnal
exercise, until the gold-fever and the oil-madness, united with the
agitation of the Southern States, set our emotional depths to new
movements, and the cry of the laborer for liberty and of the
manufacturer for more power, added fear and rage to our every-day
emotions. The rapid rise of our national power, the enormous strides in
public education, and the incredible multiplication of stimuli upon
every side, twisted and stretched our national nerves until we now see
ourselves confronted with an abnormal type, which must soon find its
normal calm in rhythmic pulse action, or else go to pieces under the
strain. Nowhere have we any outlet or re-establishing agency, except in
the dance, and in such cheap shows as permit of but a partial relief.
The class of foreign labor arriving since 1883 is from the south of
Europe, illiterate, fiery, adding another element of danger to our tense
nationality, and still our blind government has not opened musical
safety valves, for the steam that is fast rising to the bursting point.
Our musical talent is of the finest order, but, not having any
governmental aid in free instruction, is obliged to go to Europe, there
to learn to compound a German, French or Italian medicine for an
American disease, when our peculiar social pressure demands a particular
American remedy. Private schools, having only their own financial gains
in mind, are farcical agents for carrying out any truly social
functions. The land cries out for its own musical culture, as strongly
in rural districts as in urban. Cannot the government see that musical
employment in America is already covering a vast field? Scarcely any
function is conducted without Music. Restaurants, hotels, clubs, opera
houses, plays, churches, funerals, weddings, social events, parades,
steamboat service, labor union meetings, support hundreds of thousands
of professional musicians. Yet practically all of this employment is
given to foreign-born talent, because only the well-to-do in America can
study Music, and the common people who may possess the best talent, and
who may both love it and need it the most, are denied this means of
making a living, while municipal governments spend useless thousands
upon concerts, and a few park bands which but whet the public appetite,
while our rich musical talent among the poor lies dying and
neglected.\[37\] No wonder revolution knocks at the door! The government
is giving the eye-openers in its free educational plan, so aiding the
disturbance of human rhythm by sensational newspapers, noisy streets,
high prices and too quick life, yet closes the door to free musical
instruction which would tranquillize the mind, and restore equilibrium
of pulse. The churches nail down the natural impulses, and society
frowns upon "new" forms, but nature will generate her energy
nevertheless, and pent up in the human system it will boil over at a
certain point.

The United States is by no means lacking in prosperity, sufficient for
the maintenance of public musical instruction for the culture of a wage
earning occupation. Our financial reports speak for themselves. In
comparing our prosperity and our neglect of musical culture with the
activities along this line as carried on by other countries, great and
small, the following letter from ex-President Taft may be of interest:

The White House, July 3rd, 1909. Washington.

My dear Sir:--

I have your letter and I do not think it possible to secure from the
American government any appropriation for the promotion of musical
schools. This must be done by private munificence if at all.

                                                       Sincerely yours,

                                                           WM. H. TAFT.

America is mad for Music. The moving-picture shows are saving our sanity
with their rhythmic combinations of light and sound waves, their daily
audiences amounting to 5,000,000 people in 14,000 picture theaters, and
4,000 subjects annually placed upon the American market.\[38\] By this
means we retain our rhythm, but the higher remedies of the orchestral
concert, opera and chamber Music performances are denied the people who
have no wealth, while the hundreds of thousands of paying positions in
the bodies which compose these forces, are likewise prohibited to our
native talent, because there are no free schools in which such talent
can be developed. Only the well-to-do may study Music in the United
States and, strangely enough, our real talent often lies not in this
class, but outside of this charmed circle, down among the elements of
our foreign-born and the natives of foreign-born, whose ancestral nerves
have been fed upon nationally provided musical rhythm.

United States gold should be showered over the health-giving and
joy-bestowing field of National Music, so fondly loved by the people,
and so necessary to mental and physical relaxation from the maddening
strain of modern life. A bright star will adorn the administration of
the first President to take this need in hand.

FOOTNOTES:

\[37\] The value of the musical instruction as given in public schools
is not worth consideration beyond its diversion aspect. The singing is a
menace to correct voice placement and the remaining exercises are
insignificant.

\[38\] American Industries, January, 1913.

                              APPENDIX A.

                            QUESTIONNAIRE.

The exact form of the American questionnaire employed in the gathering
of statistics is given below. The inquiries sent abroad followed the
same plan and had the same scope, but were couched in somewhat more
indirect and formal terms, and of course each separate set of questions
was sent out in the language of the country to whose officials it was
directed.

For a statistical work I need some official information in regard to the
following queries:

1.  How much does the American Government expend annually upon public
    conservatories for free tuition of pupils?

2.  How much do the single states contribute annually for the same
    purpose?

3.  Is there any subvention for Grand Opera from the American Government
    or from the States?

4.  Is there any subvention for Orchestra organizations, or for Choral
    Societies?

5.  Are there any prizes granted annually from the State for musical
    achievements to composers, singers, players?

6.  Are there any endowments from the American Government or from the
    States to enable young gifted musicians to complete their musical
    education in America or abroad?

                              APPENDIX B.

                   SOURCES OF STATISTICAL MATERIAL.

The sources of the statistics in this appendix are indicated in the
first table below.

Gladly I take this opportunity again to express my appreciation of the
invariable courtesies extended in answer to my inquiries.
Elsewhere\[39\] will be found the names of the officials whose
painstaking and often detailed reports made it possible for the author
to convey to the reader a picture of the relative support given to music
by the governments of foreign states.

                _Official or Institution_      _Communication_

*Country* *Furnishing Statistics* *Dated*

Austria Imperial Academy of Music and Dec.Â 13, 1912 the Fine Arts.
Bavaria Minister of the Interior for Apr.Â 21, 1913 Religion and
Education. Belgium Minister of Arts and Sciences. Feb.Â 4, 1913 Denmark
Danish Consul-General in New May 8, 1913 York. May 13, 1913 Equador
Quito Conservatory of Music. Aug.Â 31, 1913 England National Education
Board, Dec.Â 24, 1912 Whitehall, London, England. France Paris
Conservatoire. Feb.Â 9, 1913 Holland Minister of the Interior. Mar.Â 19,
1913 Hungary Secretary of State, Budapest. Mar.Â 23, 1913 Italy Minister
of Instruction. Mar.Â 10, 1913 Norway Royal Inspector of Music in
Dec.Â 15, 1912 Christiania. Prussia Consul-General of the United Mar.Â 10,
1913 States in Berlin. Russia First Secretary to the Russian May 28,
1913 Embassy, Washington, D.C. Saxony Minister of the Interior. Apr.Â 8,
1913 Sweden Royal Conservatory of Music, Jan.Â 4, 1913 Stockholm. United
Chief Clerk, United States Mar.Â 15, 1913 States Bureau of Education.

FOOTNOTES:

\[39\] See pages 16-17.

                              APPENDIX C.

These figures are merely intended to give an idea of foreign activities
in national annual support of musical culture. Comparisons, without more
detailed statistics would be misleading and unjust. Therefore per capita
calculations have been purposely omitted.

All Military Band expenses and appropriations have been deducted from
the statistics received. Saxony and Bavaria as mere states, do not
belong to above list, but the praiseworthy achievements of Bavaria are
shown in her total expenditures of 703,030 Marks annually.

                                  _Square_       _Foreign_    _American_

*Countries* *Population*\[40\] *Miles* *Money* *Dollars* Austria
28,568,000 115,903 1,730,084 Kronen 351,207 Belgium 7,317,561 11,373
641,275 Francs 123,766 Denmark 2,775,000 15,582 20,600 Kronen 5,520
Equador (1913) 1,400,000 116,000 28,500 Sucre 13,879 France 39,252,000
207,054 1,971,118 Francs 380,425 Great Britain 45,947,000 121,510 4,600
Lbs 22,385 Holland 5,858,000 12,648 32,000 Florins 12,864 Hungary
20,851,000 125,430 1,126,033 Kronen 228,584 Italy 34,565,000 110,659
851,340 Lire 164,308 Norway 2,393,000 124,130 15,700 Kronen 4,207 Russia
142,585,000 2,217,929 139,900 Roubles 72,048 Sweden 5,476,000 172,876
313,017 Kronen 83,888

FOOTNOTES:

\[40\] *Scientific American* of 1913.

                              APPENDIX D.

                         NOTES ON TABULATION.

The foregoing tabulation may be considered fairly representative,
because the relative resources of each country, and the relative cost of
sustaining musical institutions tend to equalize the sum of their actual
benefits to the people. Bavarian and Austrian institutions charge small
rates for instruction to native talent, but much larger sums to
strangers. France and Belgium charge merely entrance fees to natives,
but strangers pay a comfortable sum, and must pass a difficult
examination. The letter from the celebrated violinist and teacher, Ovid
Musin, given in Appendix E, shows that there are two classes of
students, native students who pay a very small fee, and foreign paying
students. The letter was a reply to our inquiry as to tuition fees
charged by French and Belgian musical conservatories under governmental
control. Italy also charges a small yearly sum for instruction of
natives, but all of her institutions teach exceptional talent free of
charge, if inability to pay on the part of the applicant be proved.

Italy's distribution of her culture in Milan, Naples, Palermo, Parma,
Florence and Rome, presents an area most creditable to her governmental
care of Music. Considering Italy's position in the commercial world, her
figures represent a high proportion of attention to musical needs. This
we would naturally expect of that grand old Mediterranean race, which
has never failed in all of its wondrous history, to uphold its loftiest
ideals despite its calamities. Her musical genius has always found
national protection. Italy has thus shown her wisdom.

The density of France's population brings down her *per capita*
expenditure.

The difference in the charges to native students may depend upon the
varying cost of support in different countries. For instance in Vienna,
\$40.00 per year is one charge, while at Brussells the charge to natives
is but \$1.00 per year.

Even were free tuition not given, the governmental institutions charging
for instruction would still be great aids to the advancement of musical
culture in their respective states, as the small sums charged are within
the reach of those who can have their days free for study. How far would
\$40.00 go in musical education in the United States? In America, vocal
and piano teachers charge from \$2 to \$5 per lesson, to maintain their
position among so-called first class teachers. Car fares, Music,
instruments, clothes, tickets for concerts, operas, etc., would exhaust
\$40.00 in a month; and while an ambitious brick-layer could easily pay
\$40.00 per year, for his child's musical education in a governmentally
supported college, \$40.00 per month would represent the full wages of
two of his girls, working all day long in a department store. "Free
Schools of Music" would not be nearly so successful as "National Schools
of Music," because our people do not like anything which tends to divide
those who can pay, from those who cannot. The wise among our well-to-do
American parents now send their children to our public schools, in
preference to private academies, knowing well the superior advantages
thus gained. When it becomes known that National Schools of Music are on
a par with State universities, offering the world's best instruction and
the very best advantages, then graduation from such institutions will be
a matter of pride to anyone, rich or poor.

                        _The Question of Fees._

As we have said, the small sums required as entrance or tuition fees by
some of the musical institutions under governmental support, do not
detract from the value of such institutions; but it would scarcely be
just to place all of the conservatories so conditioned, upon a par of
public spiritedness with those which take no fees whatsoever for tuition
of native pupils, unless some superiority of educational advantages in
the former tend to equalize their benefits. It is impracticable to judge
of the merits of each institution, and such a critical examination is
not the purpose of this work; but mention of the systems employed by a
few countries showing special care of national musical culture, may not
be out of place here. Belgium has produced much of the world's genius,
giving us from her conservatory at Liege alone, such splendid artists as
Martin Marsick, Ovid Musin, Ysaye, Cesar Thomson and Remy. Liege charges
no fees to native talent. In his reply\[41\] to our request for
information concerning fees in the French, Belgian and Holland
conservatories, Ovid Musin attributes the marked artistic results of the
Belgium conservatories to the fact that the remuneration of the
professors is such as to enable them to devote their entire time to
their conservatory pupils; foreigners pay 200 francs a year, but native
students receive free tuition.

In response to a similar request concerning fees in Italian governmental
schools of Music, Signor Gatti-Casazza, director of the Metropolitan
Opera House of New York, replied that there were both free and paying
pupils.

The question of fees in all government schools of Music, would involve
an exhaustive research into the ideals behind the founding of each such
school, and into the resources upon which their maintenance depends.
Undoubtedly, the highest ideal in such undertakings is that which
animates the Belgian system, and insures its wonderful success. A close
study of Belgium's management of her conservatories would be surely
illuminating and inspiring to our own country. This little country is to
be congratulated, as the holder of the musical laurels of both the past
and the present in national support of native talent. Her efforts are
signs of the live musical genius of Belgium, and show great state care
of musical culture. Belgium has always been a leader in musical culture,
and the world owes her a debt of gratitude for her products of genius,
only to be fully appreciated when the present abnormal stage shall have
passed, and the saner musical school be once more established.

America owes much of her rarest pleasure to the varied genius presented
in Russian Music. May the lesson of Russia's governmental care for her
subjects' need of Music not be lost, in the prosperity of our too
commercialized United States of America.

Were it not for the excellent total of the Bavarian expenditures for
public education in Music, Germany as a whole would present a very poor
figure, for Saxony stands low, and the Prussian statistics were
"unavailable."\[42\] Saxony, with the wonderful musical output, which so
delights the musical world is evidently in the hands of private
business, in which governmental protection and state cultivation of
Saxon talent as yet play but a small role. This is surprising,
considering the examples around Saxony, but her resources and history
must be taken into account in the judgment of her generosity.

Norway's population is scarcely equal in number to that of one of our
medium sized American cities; hence her figures represent a true love
and care for Music, and the products of her musical genius fully justify
the support accorded. She holds her own in musical protection.

Denmark has enriched our American life with the strong free blood of the
North, and her Music, with its sweet sadness, has left its impress upon
American musical culture.

The Music-loving, and Music-needing Austrians will find the reason of
their care of national rhythm in the sorrows of their history, for no
other countries have suffered from the double tyranny of war and
religion as have Austria and Hungary, whose emotions have been the harp
upon which other powers have played continuously. Austria's position has
not seemed sufficiently stable in history to include it as a leading
power separate from German influence, and though it is so closely allied
to Italy in temperament, its language and customs are German and its
recent history is closely analogous to that of Germany. Yet Austria's
government is devoted to the musical interests of its gifted subjects.
This musical race has produced some of the noblest talent, for her past
sorrows and responsive temperament *needed* Music in a marked degree.
Austria, standing so high among the large states in musical culture, is
to be congratulated for her brilliant example. Austria's figures as they
stand, and without taking into consideration the size of her population,
would have placed her in the lead.

Swedish musical talent had taught us to expect much from Sweden, and we
are justified in this faith. The showing made by Sweden in a graph of
State care of musical culture, will find its cause likewise in its
history, for Sweden's emotions have not been left to harden for lack of
use, and her acute sufferings have been manifested in a fineness of
musical talent, and in a love for the noble in Music, equal to the
progressiveness of her national mind. In comparative peace for 90 years,
soothed by her "rhythm-giving" Music, who shall determine the result of
that noble tranquillity, which has been aided by her parental care of
the musical needs of her people? Sweden sets a splendid example for the
United States, since despite a comparative lack of wealth, cold climate
and seeming cheerlessness of environment, she nevertheless nourishes the
lovely flower of national Music. This shows a progressiveness and care
doubly commendable, when one considers in addition to the above
mentioned fact, the smallness of both her population and her resources
as compared with other countries.

The work of the Conservatory of Quito, Republic of Equador, deserves
high praise for the completeness of its outfit and evident success. It
is refreshing indeed to feel that Music holds so large a share of public
attention in this brave little Republic of the south. The study of her
musical statistics in Appendix C suggests very strongly that the Latin
races may have found in their Music, an antidote for the chilling
commercialism of modern civilization.

Holland, from whom we expected little in governmental support of Music,
presents a very good standing. We Americans, who are proud that Dutch
blood flows in our veins, could not do better than to take this small
nation as an example in national duty. She shows a praise-worthy care
for national musical culture. It is with pride in the showing made by
this distinguished little state that we call attention to her national
culture of music.

Hungary deserves high praise for the care of her musical talent as
represented in her statistics. Hungarian composition has ever possessed
a special charm for Americans. Much may be expected of a nation which so
cares for the musical need of its humblest members as to support a
symphony orchestra for the purpose of giving concerts for young workmen
in provincial towns, and for the propagation of artistic music and
culture.

FOOTNOTES:

\[41\] The communication will be found in Appendix E.

\[42\] See page 127.

                              APPENDIX E.

                            COMMUNICATIONS.

These letters are presented in condensed form for convenience.

January 2, 1914.

Tuition for strangers in European conservatories is two hundred francs.
Entrance is dependent upon the proved musical ability, before an
examination committee, of the student to do serious work, since the
number of students in each class is limited to ten. Native students pay
only five francs.

                                                            OVID MUSIN.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The French and Belgian National and Royal Conservatories are not only
supported, but were founded and are managed by their governments under
their National and Royal Commissioners for the cultivation of the Art of
Music, *for the Art's sake*. Instruction is without cost to natives, but
foreigners are taxed two hundred francs per year. This money goes to the
government, not to the professors.... The only conservatory in France
which is supported by the government is the "Conservatoire national" of
Paris. The Royal conservatories of Holland and Belgium are unique, and
entirely different in scheme from those in any other country.... The
difference between the government music schools of France and Belgium
lies in the fact that the remuneration of the Director, professors and
other officers is sufficient in the case of Belgium to enable these
'functionaries' of the government to devote their time exclusively to
their office. In fact, the professors are on the same plane as those of
the Universities, whereas in France the remuneration is quite small, and
the professors of this National Conservatory do not rely upon their
salaries in order to live, as in Belgium, and for that reason the
artistic results of the Paris Conservatory cannot be compared to the
conservatories of Belgium."

                                                       MRS. OVID MUSIN.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I believe that at the Conservatory of Milan there are two classes of
pupils. One is admitted to the courses in a fixed number, free of
charge, the other by payment."

                                                         GATTI-CASAZZA,

                              _Director of the Metropolitan Opera House
                                                          of New York_.


                               AUSTRIA.

Vienna, December 13, 1912.

Enclosed please find the governmental report and statistics for 1913
showing Austria's appropriation for music.

                                                          WILLIAM BOPP,

                                    _Director of the Imperial and Royal
                                    Academy of Music and Plastic Arts_.

       *       *       *       *       *

                                                        _Crowns_

State Conservatories, annually 699,026 Subventions to private musical
schools 332,208 Subventions to orchestra, chorus, and other musical
societies 135,850 Prizes for Composers 7,000 For other musicians 17,000
State competitions for composers 3,000 Other expenses for music 114,000
Music Instruction in Public Schools 302,000 Singing Instruction in the
Public Schools 120,000 Extraordinary expenses in the years 1911-1913 for
the new building of the Royal and Imperial Academy of Music 2,000,000
---------- Total 3,730,084

                               BAVARIA.

Munich, April 21st, 1913.

ROYAL MINISTER OF STATE, INTERIOR AND EDUCATION IN BAVARIA.

*Concerning Music Expenditures in Bavaria.*

In Bavaria there are two Music Institutions which are directed and
supported by the State. So far their income is not sufficient to cover
expenses. These institutions are the Royal Academy of Music In Munich
and the Royal Conservatory of Music in Wuerzburg.

The contribution of the State for the year's budgets 1912-1913 is,
yearly:

                                                       _Marks_

For the Royal Academy of Music in Munich 67,370 For the Royal
Conservatory in Wuerzburg 72,660

The expenditures for Music Instruction in Schools of the State are
yearly:

For the Humanistic Gymnasiums and Real Gymnasiums 157,000 For the
Progymnasiums, Latin Schools, High Real Schools and Real Schools 120,000
For the Teacher Institutes (for both sexes) 286,000 ---------- 703,030

The State does not contribute any sum for expenditures in the Royal
Theatres in Munich.

Also there is no endowment from the state for scholarships. There are
special private endowments for this purpose.

                                                               STEINER.


                               BELGIUM.

Brussells, February 4th, 1913.

MINISTRY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES.

FINE ARTS OFFICE. SECTION NO. 31042.

The four Conservatories are State Institutions and the funds are
contributed from the State, the Province and the cities.

The subvention from the State is as follows:

                                                             _Francs_

Conservatorium in Bruxelles 190,500 " " Liege 104,835 " " Gand 66,750 "
" Anvers 65,190 Annual subvention for Music schools 130,000 Annual
subvention for symphonic and choral organizations 28,800 Subventions to
gifted composers, singers, players (subject to change) last year 20,000
(Concours de Rome) Annual scholarship award 4,000 Bureau of Studies
14,200 Subvention to composers who represent their Opera in a Belgium
Theatre, annually 6,000 Subvention for the publication of old Belgian
composers, annually 11,000 ---------- Total of annual State subvention
641,275

                                                            M. PHILLIS.


                               DENMARK.

CONSULATE OF DENMARK.

8-10 Bridge St.

JNR. A.F. & I. 9/13.

New York, May 8, 1913.\[43\]

My Dear Sir:--

In further reference to your letter of March 19, I beg to inform you
that the sum of 10,000 Kroner has been granted to the Royal Music
Conservatory and of 1,000 Kroner to the so-called "Palace Concerts,"
besides this, various small amounts have been given to singers and
musicians to enable them to gain further experience abroad.

Hoping that this information will be of asistance, I am,

                                                      Yours very truly,

                                                               J. CLAN,
                                                      _Consul-General_.


                               ENGLAND.

Telegrammes:-- *Renseigne, London.*

BOARD OF EDUCATION.

WHITEHALL, LONDON, S. W.

December 24th, 1912.

No part of the grant paid by the Board of Education to schools, or other
educational institutions where music is taught is ear-marked for the
instruction of music.

An annual grant of Â£500 each is made by the State to the Royal Academy
of Music and the Royal College of Music. A similar grant of Â£300 per
annum is made to the Royal Irish Academy of Music.

The Army Estimates for the financial year 1912-1913 include sums of
Â£21,700 in aid of band expenses in the Regular Army and Â£3,300 in aid of
the Army School of Music. Singing and music are taught in some
establishments for military education, but the expenditures in these
subjects can not be separated from the rest of the expenditures.

There is no State subvention of opera.

                                                      Yours faithfully,
                                                       A. W. TWENLYMAN.

This presents English musical expenditures as follows:

Annual Grants by State to:--

                                       _Pounds_

Royal Academy of Music 500 Royal College of Music 500 Irish Academy of
Music 300 Army Band expenses in Regular Army 21,700 Schools of Music
3,300 ------ Total 26,300

                               EQUADOR.

August 31st, 1913.

The National Conservatory of Music was founded April 26th, 1900, by
Executive-Judicial Decree.

*Initial Government Subventions.*

                    1900               _Sucres_

Installation Funds 2,000.00 Salaries 12,000.00 Musical Instruments and
Music 3,510.30 1903-5. Musical Instruments and Music 35,000.00
Maintenance 58,780.00

*Annual Government Subventions since 1905.*

                    _Sucres_

1906 23,000 1907 23,000 1908 22,000 1909 25,380 1910 27,540 1911 31,500
1912 28,500 1913 28,500

The first year's class, 1900, numbered ninety-three men and thirty-one
women. The class of 1913, included two hundred and twenty-six men and
two hundred and thirteen women.

                                                         THE DIRECTORS,
                                      _National Conservatory of Music_,
                                                        Quito, Equador.


                                FRANCE.

February 9, 1913.

Here are all the official statistics--obtained this very morning.

                                                            I. PHILIPP,
                                       _Professor, Paris Conservatory_.

                                                  _Francs_

Music Inspectors, annually 14,200 Travelling expenses 3,000 French
Academy in Rome, one-fifth of total 29,195 National Conservatory:
Professors 197,300 Material 41,350 Indemnities 41,223 Branch Institutes
156,500 National Theatres, Subventions 1,225,000 Music Library of the
Opera House 6,000 Popular Concerts 133,500 Subventions to Musical
Societies 7,100 Palace of the Trocadero, for the Music Hall 13,000
Subventions to musicians 103,750 ---------- Total annually 1,971,118

                               HOLLAND.

MINISTRY OF THE INTERIOR, NO. 733.

Afdeeling K. W. Ministerie Van Binnenlandsche Zaken Gravenhage,

March 19, 1913.

                                                          _Florins_

1.  Subsidizing of Conservatories 27,000

2.  Subsidies for poor, young, gifted musicians of both sexes, as help
    in their studies 5,000

3.  For military bands 186,000

                                                        TH. HEEMSKERK,
                                         _Minister of the Interior and
                                        Secretary-General of Holland_.


                               NORWAY.

Christiania, Dec.Â 15, 1912.

Our theatres have no governmental subsidy. Music in the public schools
is a local not a federal matter.

We have no conservatories of the usual European type but there are
smaller music schools and schools for organists which are in part
subventioned by the State.

What the State spends for purposes of music can be described as follows:

                                         _Crowns_

Military Music annually 160,000 Subvention to composers 5,200 Subvention
to other musicians 6,000 Music schools 4,500 --------- Total, annually
175,700

                                                     Most respectfully,

                                                            OLE OLESON,
                                             _Army Inspector of Music_.


                                ITALY.

Rome, February 14, 1913.

MINISTRY OF INSTRUCTION.

GENERAL OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR OF ANTIQUITIES & FINE ARTS.

Posiz. 21 aff. gen. N. di.

PROT. 339. SUBJECT: STATISTICAL INQUIRY.

The Italian Government appropriates 440,500 Lire for professional
salaries and 146,400 Lire for administration expenses in connection with
the five national conservatories of music among which the former amount
is apportioned as follows:

                                            _Lire_

Milan Conservatory of Music 102,000 Naples " " " 107,000 Palermo " " "
80,000 Parma " " " 71,500 Florence Musical Institute 80,000

There is an additional appropriation approximately 30,000 Lire for
extraordinary or temporary compensation to the personnel of these
various schools.

Instruments, etc. 131,440 Annual Government Subvention to the City
Conservatory of Music at Rome 101,000 Annual subvention to pupils 2,000

                                                       (LUIGI) CREDARO,
                                      _Minister of Public Instruction_.


                               PRUSSIA.

AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL, BERLIN, GERMANY.

March 10, 1913.

I acknowledge receipt of your letter of February 9, 1913, relative to
expenditures of the Prussian Government for the benefit of musical art.

I am informed by the Prussian Statistical Bureau that no definite
figures are available as to expenditures in this branch of education.
The Prussian Minister of Education has also been unable to inform me of
the amount utilized in this particular branch. He adds that the amount
so expended varies from year to year.

Aside from the Prussian Government various municipalities within the
Kingdom occasionally make money grants for the encouragement of musical
students. Last year, for example, the City of Berlin voted Marks 60,000
(\$14,280.) in order that the Philharmonic Orchestra might be retained
in the city during the summer months instead of visiting sea shore and
other resorts. In consideration of this subsidy, the orchestra played
popular concerts at certain large halls at a nominal rate of admission.

The German Emperor in his private capacity is a liberal contributor to
musical art. He makes money grants annually for the support of the Royal
Opera in Berlin, the amount varying with each year's needs. The amount
of this contribution is not made public.

The foregoing is the most definite information obtainable on this
subject. I hope it may be of some service to you.

                                               Very respectfully yours,
                                                           M. THACKARA,
                                             _American Consul General_.


                               HUNGARY.

The following list of governmental institutions for musical culture in
Hungary were kindly submitted by Dr.Â Paul Majouszky, Chief of the
Fine-Art Section, and Naray-SzabÃ³, State Secretary.

                                                              _Crowns_

The Musical Academy of Budapest receives a yearly sum of (from Budget of
1913) 385,233 School Fees amount to 54,440 Yearly subventions to Music
Schools maintained by provincial towns and associations 56,000
Assistance to musicians, especially to composers for studies in foreign
countries and for publishing musical compositions 8,000 For general
musical aims, orchestras, concert subventions of musical works 122,000
For maintenance of Philharmonic Society formed by members of the Royal
Hungarian Opera, and the Symphonic Orchestra founded by the State in
order to give concerts for the young workmen in provincial towns 120,000
For the maintenance of the Royal Opera Orchestra and the payment of its
Director 343,500 For the Choral Society of the Budapest Royal Hungarian
University 700 For the Choral Society of the Joseph Polytechnical High
School 1,000 And for its Orchestra 1,500 Toward salaries of Music
Teachers in schools 88,100 For Military Music Bands 76,000 -----------
1,202,033

                                RUSSIA.

IMPERIAL RUSSIAN EMBASSY.

WASHINGTON, D. C.

Washington, May 28, 1913. No.Â 193.

The exact sum spent annually in subventions to music by the Imperial
Ministry of the Interior is 139,900 Roubles per annum.

                                                 ALEXANDER LYSSAKOVSKY.
                                      _First Secretary of the Embassy._


                                SAXONY.

Dresden, April 8th, 1913.

KÃ¶niglich-SÃ¤chsisches Ministerium des Innern.

No.Â 627 III. F.

There are no State Conservatories or State Schools for musical education
in Saxony.

The institutions for musical education under control of the ministerial
department are various private undertakings.

For artistic development in music the undersigned Ministry allows 5,000
marks a year. This support is for part or whole tuition for unusually
gifted and studious men and women students who belong in Saxony.

                                         (Graf) VITZTHUM VON ECKSTAEDT,
                              _Royal Minister of the Interior, Saxony_.


                                SWEDEN.

Royal Conservatory of Music.

Stockholm, January 4th, 1913.

The yearly subventions of the Swedish Government for music according to
the latest available sources:

                                                         _Crowns_

Annual subvention from the State for the Royal Academy of Music and the
Royal Conservatory 85,649.67 Subvention to the Royal Opera House
60,000.00 Subventions to Swedish Composers 15,000.00 Musical Instruction
in public schools 124,367.50 Military orchestras 1,027,424.10 Two
orchestras 28,000.00 ------------ Total of annual subvention
1,340,441.27

                                                           BR. BECKMAN.


                            UNITED STATES.

DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, BUREAU OF EDUCATION,

Washington, D. C., March 5, 1913.

1.  The American government does not make any appropriation whatsoever
    for the instruction of pupils in public conservatories.

2.  So far as known to this office, none of the states contribute sums
    for the same purpose.

3.  The American government does not make any subvention for grand
    opera. In so far as this Bureau has been able to obtain information,
    no such subvention is made by any state.

4.  So far as known to this Bureau, there is no subvention for orchestra
    organizations or choral societies.

5.  So far as known to this Bureau there are no prizes granted by the
    State for musical achievements to composers, singers or players.

6.  There is no endowment by the federal government to enable young
    gifted musicians to complete their musical education in America or
    abroad.

I may say that instruction in music is given in some of the Indian
schools maintained by the federal government and such schools also have
musical organizations. No specific appropriation for instruction in
music, however, is made by the federal government. This statement
applies also to state-aided institutions.

                                                          Respectfully,
                                                         T. A. KALBACH,
                                                         _Chief Clerk_.


                               HUNGARY.

ROYAL HUNGARIAN MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORSHIP AND EDUCATION BUDAPEST N.
13577

TRANSLATION.

I have the honour to give you the information you asked in your letter
from the 11th January, 1913. There is only one musical school, a
high-school, of the state in Hungary: the Music Academy in Budapest. The
budget of the present year provides the sum of 385.233 crowns for the
maintenance of that institute. After deducting the school fees of 54.440
cr. the state has to spend yearly 333.793 cr. The state gives also to
the music schools maintained by provincial towns and associations a
yearly subvention of 56.000 cr. that is increasing from year to year. To
the purpose of assisting musicians, especially composers to make studies
in foreign countries, and of publishing musical compositions and a
collection of popular songs, the budget provides 8,000 cr. For general
musical aims, (orchestras, concerts, subventions of musical works, etc.)
122.000 cr. are destined, specially 120.000 cr. to the maintenance of
the philharmonic society formed by members of the Royal Hung. Opera and
the Symphony Orchestra founded by the state in order to give concerts
for the young workmen, etc. in provincial towns and to the propagation
of artistic music and culture. The maintenance of the Royal Opera
Orchestra and the payment of its dirigent require 343.500 cr. The
capital Budapest maintains a course of music, and number of provincial
towns maintain music schools and orchestras without any assistance of
the state. As for the costs of military bands I shall have the honour to
give you subsequently the necessary information.

Budapest, the 23d March 1913.

                                                      For the minister:
                                                  (Signed) NARAY-SZABO,
                                                     _State Secretary_.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROYAL HUNGARIAN MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORSHIP AND EDUCATION BUDAPEST N.
124655

I have the honour to give you the supplementary information I promised,
when answering (N. 13577, 12th April) your letter from the 11th January.
The Hungarian State at present gives an annual subsidy of 700 crowns to
the choral society of Budapest Royal Hungarian University, 1000 crowns
to the choral society and 1500 to the orchestra of the Joseph
Olytechnical High School. In the middle schools (Colleges and Real
Schools) the musical teaching is not yet perfectly organized, the fees
for the courses are paid by the pupils, the state contributes to the
salaries of music teachers. The annual costs of the said teaching amount
(including a salary of 6400 cr. for the inspector) in girl schools to
74,500, in medico-pedagogical institutes to 13,600 cr., those for the
maintenance of military music-bands in the regular army 76,400 crowns.

Budapest, the 24th July, 1913.

                                              By order of the Minister,
                                            (Signed) DR. PAUL MAJOWZKY,
                                       _Chief of the Fine-Art Section_.

FOOTNOTES:

\[43\] Another letter dated May 13, 1913, adds "9,600 Kroner to the
different concert associations," bringing Denmark's annual expenditure
for musical education up to a total of 20,600 Kroner.

                              APPENDIX F.


                             BIBLIOGRAPHY.

AMERICAN HISTORY AND ENCYCLOPEDIA OF MUSIC THE.: Irving Square, New
York.

BAILEY, L. H.: Country Life Movement, 1911, MacMillan Co.

BRYCE, JAMES: The American Commonwealth, 1911, MacMillan Co.

BULFINCH, THOMAS: Age of Fables, John D. Morris & Co., No.Â 122 of
Edition de Luxe.

CAESAR, JULIUS: De Bello Gallico.

CARHART, H. S.: University Physics, Part I, Allan & Bacon, Boston.

DARWIN, CHARLES: Descent of Man, 1909, Appleton & Co., Second Edition.

DEFURSAC, J. ROGUES: Manual of Psychiatry, 1908, John Wiley & Sons, New
York.

DICKINSON, EDWARD: The Study of the History of Music, 1912, Chas.
Scribner's Sons, New York.

ELLIS, HAVELOCK: Studies in the Psychology of Sex, 1906, F. R. Davis
Co., Philadelphia.

ELLIS AND HORNE: The Story of the Greatest Nations, Niglutsch.

GALTON: Hereditary Genius and English Men of Science.

GIBBINS, H. DE B.: Industry in England, 1907, Charles Scribner's Sons,
New York.

GIBBONS, ED.: Roman Empire, Hurst & Co., New York.

GIDDINGS: Democracy and Empire, 1912, MacMillan Co.; Principles of
Sociology, 1911, MacMillan Co.; Descriptive and Historical Sociology,
1909, MacMillan Co.; Inductive Sociology, 1909, MacMillan Co.; Elements
of Sociology, 1898, MacMillan Co.; "Sociology," a lecture published in
1908 by the Columbia Press.

GROTE, GEORGE: Greece, Peter Fenelon Collier & Son, New York.

GUMMERE, FRANCIS B.: Germanic Origins, 1892, Chas. Scribner's Sons, New
York.

GUMPLOVICZ, LUDWIG: Rassenkampf, 1909, Innsbruck, Wagnersche univ.
buchhadlung.

GURNEY, EDMUND: The Power of Sound, 1880, Smith, Elder & Co., London.

HADDON, A. C.: The Wandering of Peoples.

HARRISON, JANE ELLEN: "Themis."

HAWEIS, REV. H. R.: Music and Morals, 1876, Harper & Bros., New York.

HAWES, C. H. AND H. B.: Crete, The Forerunner of Greece, 1911, Harper &
Bros.

HELMHOLTZ, HERMANN L. F.: Sensations of Tone, 1912, Longmans, Green &
Co.

HAEKEL, ERNST: Riddle of the Universe, Harper & Bros., N. Y. and London.

HERVEY, ARTHUR: Masters of French Music, 1896, Chas. Scribner's Sons.

HISTORICAL PUBLISHING CO., THE, London, Philadelphia. The Drama.

HOUGH AND SEDGWICK: The Human Mechanism, Ginn & Co.

HOWELL, WILLIAM H.: Text-Book of Physiology, 1907, V. B. Saunders Co.,
New York.

HUEFFER, FRANCIS: Half a Century of Music in England, 1889, Gebbie & Co.

JANET, PIERRE: The Major Symptoms of Hysteria, 1907, MacMillan Co.

JENCKS AND LAUCK: Immigration Problem, 1912, Funk & Wagnalls Co.

KEANE, A. H.: The World's Peoples, 1908, G. P. Putnam's Sons, New York.

KITTO, JOHN: Palestine, Peter Fenelon Collier & Son, New York.

KRAEPELIN, DR. EMIL: Clinical Psychiatry, 2nd Edition, William Wood &
Co., 1906.

LANSON, GUSTAV: Histoire de la litterature francaise, 1894, Hachette &
Co., Paris.

LAVIGNAC, ALBERT: Music and Musicians, 1899, Henry Holt & Co., New York.

LETOURNEAU, CHAS.: Property, Its Origin and Development, 1896, Charles
Scribner's Sons, New York.

MAINE, HENRY SUMNER: Lectures on the Early History of Institutions.

MAITLAND, FULLER: Masters of German Music, 1894, Osgood, McIlvaine &
Co., London.

MARX, DR. KARL: Capital, 1909, Chas. H. Kerr & Co., Chicago.

MORGAN, LEWIS H.: Ancient Peoples.

MYRES, J. L.: The Dawn of History, 1911, Williams and Norgate, London.

OCHEA: Tesoro del Teatro Espanol, Tomo IV, 1898, Garnier Hermanos,
Paris.

REINSCH, PAUL S.: American Federal Government, Ginn & Co.

RIPLEY, WILLIAM G.: The Races of Europe.

ROUSSEAU, J. J.: Du contrat social, Ernest Flammarion, Paris.

RUTHERFORD, E.: Radio Activity, 1905, Cambridge, University Press.

SCHOPENHAUER, ARTHUR: The World as Will and Idea, 1907-9, K. Paul,
Trench, Trubner & Co., London.

SEAGER, HENRY ROGERS: Social Insurance, 1910, The MacMillan Co., Amer.
Social Progress Series.

SEEBOHM, FREDERICK: Tribal Customs in Anglo-Saxon Law, 1902, Longmans,
Green & Co., New York.; The Tribal System in Wales, 1904, Longmans,
Green & Co., New York.

SPENCER, HERBERT: First Principles.; Synthetic Philosophy, 1900, D.
Appleton & Co.; Principles of Biology, 1900, D. Appleton & Co.

STANDARD AMERICAN ENCYCLOPEDIA, THE.

STEINER, EDWARD A.: On the Trail of the Immigrant, 1906, Fleming H.
Revell Co.

STORRING, GUSTAV: Mental Pathology and Normal Psychology, 1907, Swan,
Sonnenschein & Co., London.

STREATFIELD, R. A.: The Opera, 1907, George Routledge & Sons, Limited,
London.

SUMNER, WILLIAM J.: Folk Ways, 1907, Ginn & Co., Boston.

SYMONDS, JOHN ADDINGTON: Renaissance in Italy, 1907, Chas. Scribner's
Sons, New York.

TACITUS: Germania, 1911, G. Bell & Sons, London.

TAYLOR, ISAAC: The Origin of the Aryans.

THOMAS, WILLIAM J.: Source Book for Social Origins, 1909, The University
of Chicago Press.

THOMSON, J. ARTHUR: Darwinism and Human Life.

THORNDIKE, EDWARD A.: Educational Psychology, 1903, The Science Press,
New York.

TILLEY, ARTHUR: The Literature of the French Renaissance, 1904,
Cambridge, at the University Press.

WALLASCHEK, RICHARD: Primitive Music, 1893, Longmans, Green & Co.

WARD, LESTER: Applied Sociology, 1906, Ginn and Co.

WEBB, SIDNEY AND BEATRICE: Industrial Democracy, 1911, Longmans, Green &
Co., London.

WILLEBY, CHAS.: Masters of English Music, 1893, Jas. R. Osgood,
McIlvaine & Co., London.

WOOLDRIDGE, H. E.: The Oxford History of Music, 1901, Oxford, at the
Clarendon Press.

                                 VITA.

The writer was graduated from New York University in 1900 with the
degree of Bachelor of Laws. She entered Columbia University in 1907
where she received the degrees of Bachelor of Music in 1910, and of
Master of Arts in 1911.

She is the author of "The Advanced School of Vocal Art," and of various
operatic libretti, and the translator of numerous published poems from
the French, German, Italian and Spanish.

During 1902-1904, she was a contributor from Russia to "The Brooklyn
Daily Eagle," and, in 1912, to various periodicals. During 1904-1913,
she was one of the four directors of The Powell and Pirani Musical
Institute of Brooklyn, New York.

In 1909, she was one of the incorporators of "The Public Good Society of
New York City," and was elected its president, which position she still
holds.

In 1912 she was elected honorary member of the American Philharmonic
Society.

                                 INDEX

*A*

Abnormality in Modern Life, 64

Accident at Sea, 45

Adaptation of physical functions, 22

Adequate training, 9

Age of Music, 36

Agitation, 6

Agitation tranquillized, 41

American craving for rhythm, 95

American industry, 8

American talent, 8

American type of music, 93

Animals and musical sound, 27

Appeal of the work, 14

Appreciation in music, 33

Aryan appreciation, 39

Aryan disturbances, 39

Aryan talent, 25

Auber and the social mind, 87

Austria, 114

Awakening in Italy, 67

*B*

Barbarism and its music, 37

Barders of Tacitus, 30

Bavaria, 115

Belgium, 117

Bellini and the social mind, 62

Berlioz and the social mind, 85

Bibliography, 138

Boildieu and the social mind, 86

British emotions, 69

*C*

Canada and its type of Music, 50

Catholicism and the ideo-Motor element, 51

Characterization in music, 30

Characteristic Italian composition, 67

Children and Sound, 29

Chinese use of music, 24

Chopin and the social mind, 85

Church influence and the ballad, 91

Church Choirs, 54

Church pressure in the United States, 94

Civilization and bodily disturbance, 7

Civilization and rhythm disturbances, 37

Classes reached by musical schools, 10

Complexity in social pressure, 93

Complexity in music, 32-36

Complications in Orchestration, 85-87

Concerted volition in music, 34

Concert Tests in Coney Island, 41

Concert Tests in England, 41

Concert Tests in Germany, 41

Concert Tests in Russia, 41

Concert Tests in United States, 41

Concert Tests upon Italian Stone Cutters, 50

Coney Island response to Musical Stimulus, 43

Contrasts in French and German re-actions, 84

*D*

Dancing a need, 65

Darwin's theory of music, 19

Dawn of musical history, 38

Deafness and carriage motion, 48

Deafness and music, 48

Deafness and the telephone, 48

Decay of the Gens, 36-37

Denmark, 118

Depression and Musical stimulus, 46

Desire for music, 14

Development of ideas, 25

Development of internal integrations, 23

Disturbance expressions, 24

Disturbance of bodily rhythm, 6

Disturbances defined, 32

Dogmatic emotional need, 51

Donizetti and the social mind, 62

*E*

Economic movements, 5

Effects of rhythmic stimulus, 42-46

Emotional forces, 5

Emotional products in music, 56

Emotions and sound, 13

England, 119

English composition, 69

English support of musical culture, 70

Equador, 121

European recognition of Musical need, 10

Evolution Stages (a) Appreciation, 33 (b) Utilization, 33 (c)
Characterization, 33 (d) Socialization, 33

Evolution of the Eye, 22

Ethnic music, 36

Excitable natures, 48

Experiments, 43

*F*

Fees, 105

First responses to stimuli, 22

First inter-change of ideas, 22

First rhythmic inventions, 23

Foreign talent, 94

France, 81-122

Franck and the social mind, 89

French intellectualism in music, 56

French opera, 85

French re-actions, 81

*G*

Gens system and emotionalism, 39

Gentile family, 36

German folk spirit, 74

German grand opera, 49

German lieder, 49

Germanic tribal music, 29

Germany, 71

Giddings note, 34

Greek Church type, 50

Gounod and the social mind, 89

Group re-action to music, 41

Group tendency in music, 7

*H*

Haeckel's note, 21

Heart action and modern stimuli, 29

Heroic opera, 74

Hindus and the musical ideal, 24

Holland, 123

Human liking for like musical motion, 35

Hungary, 129-135

Hylobates syndactylus, 22

Hymnal music, 92

*I*

Ideo emotional groups, 49

Indebtedness for statistics, 16

Individual experiments, 47

Inspiration in Columbia College courses, 17

Intellectual stimuli of tribal life, 27

Italian Ideals, 65

Italian life and papal authority, 62

Italy, 125

*J*

Japan's use of music, 24

*K*

Knightly ballad taste, 72

*L*

Laws of motion and the body, 58

Laws of need, 42

Lectures with music, 45

Lectures without music, 45

Life preservation and music, 58

Live force in musical vibrations, 26

*M*

Massenet and the social mind, 89

Mascagni and the social mind, 67

Mean rhythm of aggregates, 31

Measurement of musical effects, 26

Mental attitude of 1821, 74

Mendelssohn and the social pressure, 76

Meyerbeer and the social mind, 87

Milder stimuli and musical expression, 80

Mission of music, 13

Music and Motion, 31

Music as a health measure, 55

Music as a national need, 28

Music and national disturbances, 60

Music as an incident force, 59

Music and social control, 16

Music for rhythm maintenance, 31

Music as an industry, 9

Music in Colleges, 10

Music taxation, 11

Music of birds, 27

Music in carriage motion, 48

Musical employment field, 8-94

Musical madness, 89

Musical statistics, 12

Musical tone in railway motions, 48

Musical tone in telephones, 48

Musical tone in wash of waves, 48

Musical tone in winds, 48

Musical valves for American emotionalism, 95

*N*

Napoleon's influence on music, 83

National control of music, 7

National stimuli, 60

National type of music, 10-55

Nature and music, 19

New combination of tone and nerve, 59

New organs for new stimuli, 37

Normal pulse action, 56

Normalizing effect of music, 48

Northern immigration, 92

Norway, 124

*O*

Ocean Grove mental type, 51

Opera comique under Mehul, 86

Orchestral complexity, 85

*P*

Paleolithic man and percussion, 36

Panic calmed by National songs, 46

Partially deaf re-actions to music, 27

Passion for homogeneity, 36

Peace and Parsifal, 80

Peace and religious agitation, 88

Periodic Motions, 39

Phlegmatic natures, 48

Pioneer life and social pressure, 91

Popular waves of feeling, 6

Primitive man's rhythmic life, 21

Primitive speech as rhythmic disturber, 23

Proper study of music, 15

Prussia, 127

Public emotionalism, 6

Public school musical instruction, 94

*R*

Rational thinking and Gidding's definition, 40

Rationalistic group, 52

Rationalistic music, 52

Real elements of music, 22

Rebellious fanaticism, 83

Recent absurdities in musical form, 62

Recent immigration, 93

Realm of musical need, 53

Reflective Sympathy and music, 35

Response of the masses, 5

Registration of rhythm, 39

Religious atmosphere in U. S., 92

Revolutionary character of Tristan 1865, 78

Rise of industrial complications, 92

Rossini and the social mind, 62-86

Russia, 130

Russian audiences, 49

*S*

Saint-Saens and the social mind, 89

Savagery and its music, 37

Saxony, 131

Schumann and the social mind, 49

Science and musical study, 15

Schubert and the social mind, 72

Separation of church and state, 89

Social want, 10

Social welfare, 15

Social mind in France, 82

Sociological terminology in music, 35

Sources of conclusions, 41

Sources of statistics, 74-99

Spencer's theory of music, 20

Spontini and the Napoleonic regime, 86

State and Municipal expenditure, 10

Strenuous years 1848 to 1860, 65

*T*

Tension in strikes, 46

Tests among revolutionary elements, 54

Tendency toward musical equality, 36

Theory of rhythm, 12

Thesis, 7

Toneurology, 56

Tragedy element in Italian life, 61

Tribal life and rhythmic disturbances, 23

*U*

United States, 91-133

Untalented citizens, 15

Universal craving for music, 53

Utility aspect of music, 33

*V*

Value of New York expenditures, 10

Value of percussion, 23

Value of music with the dance, 64

Verdi and the social mind, 65

Vibratory impulse, 30

Vita, 143

Vocalism extraordinary, 62

Von Weber and the social mind, 74

*W*

Wagner and the social mind, 50

Wallascheks, 20

Waltz, social significance of, 77

War factor in music of tribes, 25

Wave (the) of emotionalism 1861, 92

Western music, 9

Working girl's tests, 41-54

Working girl's club, 46

Transcriber's Notes

Errors in punctuation have been fixed.

Page 19: "there mnst lie" changed to "there must lie"

Page 24: "sub-conscions recognition" changed to "sub-conscious
recognition"

Page 27: "same muscial environment" changed to "musical environment"

Page 39: "held togther" changed to "held together"

Page 46: "the "Marsellaise"" changed to "the "Marseillaise""

Page 58: "pyschology" changed to "psychology" in two locations

Page 73: "Eightenth century" changed to "Eighteenth century"

Page 75: "paino works" changed to "piano works"

Page 87: "musical composiiton" changed to "musical composition"

Page 92: "the agitaiton of" changed to "the agitation of"

Page 94: "thousands of professioanl" changed to "thousands of
professional"

Page 148: "Primitive speach" changed to "Primitive speech" "Sources of
satistics" changed to "Sources of statistics"

Page 150: "life and rhythmis" changed to "life and rhythmic"

\*\*\* END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MUSIC AS A HUMAN NEED \*\*\*

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will be
renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works, so
the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright royalties.
Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this
license, apply to copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and
trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be
used if you charge for an eBook, except by following the terms of the
trademark license, including paying royalties for use of the Project
Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the trademark license is very easy. You may use
this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works,
reports, performances and research. Project Gutenberg eBooks may be
modified and printed and given away--you may do practically ANYTHING in
the United States with eBooks not protected by U.S. copyright law.
Redistribution is subject to the trademark license, especially
commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU
DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work (or
any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all the
terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy all
copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession. If
you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be used
on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who agree
to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few things that
you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works even without
complying with the full terms of this agreement. See paragraph 1.C
below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement and help
preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.
See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States. If an
individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the United States and
you are located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent
you from copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating
derivative works based on the work as long as all references to Project
Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope that you will support the
Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic
works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with
the terms of this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name
associated with the work. You can easily comply with the terms of this
agreement by keeping this work in the same format with its attached full
Project Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with
others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country other than the United
States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you will
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not contain a
notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the copyright
holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in the United
States without paying any fees or charges. If you are redistributing or
providing access to a work with the phrase "Project Gutenberg"
associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply either with
the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or obtain permission
for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set
forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form. Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing access
to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided that:

-   You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
    the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
    you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
    to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
    agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
    Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
    within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
    legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
    payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
    Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
    Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
    Literary Archive Foundation."

-   You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
    you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
    does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
    License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
    copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
    all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
    works.

-   You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
    any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
    electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
    receipt of the work.

-   You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
    distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set forth
in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from the
Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in
Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by your
equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal fees.
YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY,
BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE PROVIDED IN
PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE TRADEMARK OWNER, AND
ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR
ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES
EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a defect
in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can receive
a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a written
explanation to the person you received the work from. If you received
the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with your
written explanation. The person or entity that provided you with the
defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund. If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law. The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will remain
freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure and
permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations. To
learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and
how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4 and the
Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the state
of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal Revenue
Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification number is
64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by U.S.
federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to date
contact information can be found at the Foundation's website and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of increasing the
number of public domain and licensed works that can be freely
distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest array of
equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations (\$1 to
\$5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt status
with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations where
we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make any
statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from outside
the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other ways
including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To donate,
please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone. For forty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search facility:
www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm, including
how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to subscribe to
our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
