The Project Gutenberg eBook of Christmas eve at Mulligan's, by Marie
Irish

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Christmas eve at Mulligan's

Author: Marie Irish

Release Date: November 12, 2022 [eBook #69335]

Language: English

Produced by: Charlene Taylor, Krista Zaleski and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by The
             Internet Archive/American Libraries.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHRISTMAS EVE AT
MULLIGAN'S ***





_Song Specialties for Your Entertainments_


Teachers are discovering that no matter how much novelty there is in
their entertainment, how well it is arranged, how thoroughly drilled,
if they want to hold the active interest of the audience they must use
the best of songs. The songs must be real novelties. The words must be
interesting as well as decidedly clever. The music must be catchy and
abounding in rich melody. With these things in mind we have prepared
this list of superior song novelties for our patrons. All are in
regular sheet music form.

  _=Price, 35 cents each; 5 for $1.25=_


WELCOME SONGS

  We’ve Just Arrived from Bashful Town.
  We Hope You’ve Brought Your Smiles Along.
  Come and Partake of Our Welcome Cake.
  We’re Very Glad to See You Here.
  With Quaking Hearts We Welcome You.


CLOSING SONGS

  Mr. Sun and Mrs. Moon.
  Now, Aren’t You Glad You Came?
  We Do Not Like to Say Goodbye.
  We’ll Now Have to Say Goodbye.


=_Paine Publishing Co., Dayton, Ohio_=




  Christmas Eve at Mulligan’s

  By

  MARIE IRISH

  AUTHOR OF

  _Choice Christmas Entertainments_
  _The Primary Christmas Book_
  _Choice Christmas Dialogues and Plays_
  _Best Christmas Pantomimes_
  _Snappy Humorous Dialogues, Etc._


  PAINE PUBLISHING COMPANY
  DAYTON, OHIO




CHRISTMAS EVE AT MULLIGAN’S




CHARACTERS


  PETER MULLIGAN.
  NORA MULLIGAN, his wife.
  DANNIE,  }
  ROSIE,   } their children.
  KATIE,   }
  MRS. O’BRIEN, a neighbor.
  PATSY, her son.
  BILL JONES, Mulligan’s boarder.
  MISS HAGEN, a nurse.


  COPYRIGHT, 1922, BY
  L. M. PAINE




Christmas Eve at Mulligan’s


SCENE--The Mulligans’ Living Room

_Discovered_, ROSIE _and_ KATIE

ROSIE: Oh, KATIE, don’t you want a doll for Christmas? I want one just
awful, dreadful, _terrible_ bad--not a bad dolly, but I want it so bad
that I just can’t tell you how bad.

KATIE: Now then, ROSIE, ain’t you the naughty girl to be wanting a
doll when dear DANNIE is trying to get his eyes well? I don’t want
_anything_ if he can just be made to see, and you know that takes lots
of money.

ROSIE: Well, I guess I can wish for a dolly--wishing doesn’t cost
anything, does it? ’Course, I don’t mean I want it bought for me; I
just mean I want it. That isn’t the same, not a bit.

KATIE: Oh, I see! Well, I don’t even _want_ anything, only that DANNIE
can get his eyes fixed. Just think, ROSIE, if he could come home able
to look at us. Wouldn’t that be grand, now?

ROSIE: Oh, dear! Oh, boo-hoo-hoo! [_Rubs eyes._] Boo-hoo-hoo-hoo!

KATIE: [_putting arm about her_] W’y, ROSIE, dear, what’s the matter?
Is it sick you are? Does your stummick hurt, ROSIE?

ROSIE: Oh, KATIE, w-w-what if--if-- [_sobs_] DANNIE can see an’ he
don’t think I’m pretty? I--I’ve got--freckles on my nose.

KATIE: [_patting her_] Now don’t you be worrying ’bout freckles--they
don’t hardly show a mite, honest. DANNIE will think you look pretty,
even if you ain’t, but you are.

ROSIE: But I’d like to have my hair all fixed with my nice ribbon an’
be dressed up.

        _Enter_ MR. MULLIGAN _who stands at the back listening_

KATIE: Oh, ROSIE, let’s go an’ fix us all up now, just to see how nice
we can make us look, just as if it were that DANNIE’S comin’ home
tonight. That’ll be fun. [_Claps hands and dances about._]

ROSIE: Sure, an’ it’ll make us forget that we can’t hang up our
stockings tonight. An’ I don’t want the doll _very_ bad, KATIE.

KATIE: Indeed you don’t if dear DANNIE comes home so he sees us. Come
on. [_They take hold of hands and run off merrily._]

MULLIGAN: [_coming up to center, shaking head and sighing_] Poor little
dears, what a pity it is, now, that they’ll not be gittin’ a single
bit of a Christmas prisint. [_Sits._] But what’s a poor workin’ man
like mesilf to do whin Christmas comes round an’ he hasn’t a cint left?
Sure, there’s no father that’s wantin’ to do better by his childer than
I do, but with all of DANNIE’S ixpenses I’m clean broke.

                         _Enter_ MRS. MULLIGAN

MRS. M.: Now, PETER man, what’s the trouble that’s botherin’ ye so’s
that ye look like as if there wasn’t a patch o’ sunshine as big as a
pinhead left in the world? My, my, can’t ye look a bit merrier than
this on Christmas eve? An’ whin DANNIE who’s niver looked out of his
eyes all the years he’s lived, bless ’im, is gettin’ ’em fixed so’s he
can see.

MULLIGAN: But NORA darlin’, when a man’s got sich a fine wife an’ sich
fine childer as I’ve got, an’ likes to do well by ’em, it comes awful
hard not to give ’em a bit of a treat at Christmas. [_Sighs._]

MRS. M.: [_putting hand on his shoulder_] Now, PETER, not a bit more of
that! We are going to have a wonderful Christmas, just in havin’ DANNIE
come home so he can see. Shame to think we need any prisint but that.

MULLIGAN: [_sadly_] Oh, NORA, that’s one thing that’s a botherin’ me. I
wint over to the hospital tonight ’fore I came home an’ they wouldn’t
let me see ’im, not a-tall a-tall, I’m that worried fer fear he ain’t a
doin’ jist right that I scarce know if I’m here or there, sure now.

MRS. M.: [_Shakes head._] Dear, dear! [_Brightens._] But it’s not
worryin’ we’ll be this night, whin it’s Christmas eve. I’m sure that
DANNIE is gettin’ along fine. Maybe they’re plannin’ to let ’im come
home tomorry for a s’prise an’ had to keep ’im quiet. Wouldn’t that be
grand now?

MULLIGAN: Let’s hope it’s so, NORA. [_Sits with head bowed on hand._]

                           _Enter_ BILL JONES

JONES: Well, well! What’s PETER weepin’ ’bout this Christmas eve?
[_Pulls out big colored handkerchief and wipes_ MULLIGAN’S _eyes_.] I
bet you’re cryin’ ’cause you think Santy won’t bring you any present.
[_Laughs._]

MULLIGAN: [_Laughs._] Quit pickin’ on a little feller like me. Why
don’t you be teasin’ NORA here, if ye wants to pick a quarrel?

JONES: [_pretending fright_] Not the missis--I’ve seen ’er bring you to
time with the rollin’ pin too often to make ’er mad at me.

MRS. M.: [_laughing_] Shame now to speak so whin you know me for the
best natured lady that’s standin’ before ye at the prisint time.

JONES: Where’s the two pieces of mischief?

MRS. M.: [_innocently_] An’ who can ye mean?

JONES: I mean those two girls that grow more like their mother ev’ry
day. They’ve got their father’s beauty an’ their mother’s temper.

MULLIGAN: [_laughing_] Hivin pity ’em!

MRS. M.: Now see ye here, BILL JONES, I was goin’ to make ye a nice
cookie cut in shape of a pig fer a Christmas prisint, but I’ll not do
it if ye don’t be after quittin’ an’ go to behavin’.

JONES: [_folding hands piously_] If I quit a-tall I’ll have to quit
behavin’ ’cause I’m always good. My mother says I’m the best boy she’s
got--the other six boys bein’ girls. But tell me now, where’s ROSIE an’
KATIE?

MULLIGAN: Sure, they’re in their room fixin’ up tryin’ to see how nice
they can make themselves look ’cause they want DANNIE to think they’re
pretty when he sees ’em.

MRS. M.: Now what a notion! But still, it’s a good one. DANNIE niver
has seen a one of us an’ we’d all ought to look as fine as possible
when he first lays eyes on us.

JONES: Say, if that’s so, I’ll have to go out an’ try to order me a new
face. No use in tryin’ to fix this one up so’s it’ll look han’some.

MRS. M.: Now, now, MISTER JONES, I know many a lady would think ye’re a
fine-lookin’ man.

JONES: [_excitedly_] Where’s one of ’em? I’ll take ’er to the movies
an’ buy ’er a sack of popcorn.

MULLIGAN: I guess I’ll have to brush up some ’fore DANNIE comes home.
I’d like for him to have sort of a likin’ for the looks o’ his homely
ol’ dad.

MRS. M.: You’ll look good to DANNIE, PETER man, an’ I guess wasn’t ye
called one the finest-lookin’ young men in the town when I married ye?

JONES: My, my, how it’s changed ’im--livin’ with you, MRS. MULLIGAN.

    _Enter_ ROSIE _and_ KATIE _dressed in white with bright ribbons
                           and hair flowing_

MRS. M.: [_throwing up hands_] Now, now, who iver did see such
fine-lookin’ girls. Is it goin’ to a party ye are?

KATIE: Of course not. We’re just trying to see if we could fix so our
DANNIE’LL think we’re pretty when he sees us. Do you ’spose he will?

ROSIE: Do you ’spose he’ll mind the freckles on my nose when I’ve got
my pretty ribbon on?

JONES: [_going close and gazing_] Well, now, I didn’t know you had
freckles but I believe there are some here, ’bout as big as pancakes.

ROSIE: [_slapping him_] Now, you stop teasing me or I’ll tell the
policeman on you.

JONES: [_striking attitude_] Who’s ’fraid of a policeman? If he says
anything to me I’ll eat him up.

ROSIE: [_pointing finger_] Shame to talk so! Santa Claus won’t bring
you any presents if you tell such bad stories.

MULLIGAN: [_sighing_] I guess he won’t bring any of yez a prisint.
We’re too poor this year.

KATIE: Now, papa, we don’t want a single present except for DANNIE to
come home with his eyes all fixed so he can see us. Won’t that be just
a grand present? [_Dances around the room._]

JONES: I’ll say that’s a fine present. Won’t DANNIE think we’re a
_h--h--han’some_ family? Hurrah for DANNIE. [_He joins hands with_
KATIE _and they dance joyously around the room while the others laugh_.]

MRS. M.: We have been savin’ up our earning’s many a long month to git
DANNIE’S eyes cured if there came a time when the doctor said it could
be done. Now he’s had the operation an’ the doctors say they think the
dear boy is goin’ to see, bless ’im, an’ we don’t care, not a little
mite, ’cause it’s taken all our money an’ we can’t have any Christmas
prisints, do we?

KATIE: No, no, all the present we want is for DANNIE to see.

ROSIE: I don’t even care for a doll--if DANNIE won’t think I’m homely.

MRS. M.: I want you all to say: We don’t care for presents if DANNIE
can see.

THE OTHERS: We don’t care for presents if DANNIE can see.

MRS. M.: We don’t care for a Christmas tree if DANNIE can see.

THE OTHERS: We don’t care for a Christmas tree if DANNIE can see.

MRS. M.: We don’t care for a Christmas dinner if DANNIE can see.

THE OTHERS: We don’t care for a Christmas dinner if DANNIE can see.

MRS. M.: That’s fine. Now we must remimber that all day tomorrow, which
will be Christmas day.

ROSIE: Can’t DANNIE come home tomorrow? We want him home Christmas.

MULLIGAN: [_shaking head_] I’m ’fraid he’ll not be comin’ fer a bit
yet. Mebbe he’ll be here for New Year’s.

ROSIE: [_clapping hands_] Oh, won’t that be lovely?

JONES: [_to_ MULLIGAN] Say, PETER, an’ s’posin’ DANNIE was to see you
now? Why don’t you fuss up some an’ let us see how it improves the
looks of you? Put on a necktie f’r instance.

ROSIE: Oh, why not ev’rybody fix up an’ we’ll have a party an’ play
games. Then we won’t mind ’cause we can’t have a Christmas tree.

MRS. M.: That’s not a bad idee, a-tall a-tall.

MULLIGAN: I’m thinkin’ I’d look a mite better fussed up some. [_He and_
MRS. M. _leave the room_.]

ROSIE: Oh, MR. JONES, I think you’d look nice with your hair parted in
the middle, like the clerk in the store where mama buys things. I know
DANNIE would like to see you with it that way. Won’t you let me fix it?

JONES: My hair parted in the middle? Say, now, ROSIE, do you want to
fix me so they’ll steal me an’ put me in the animal show at the circus?

ROSIE: Please let me try it. [_She runs off._ JONES _sits down meekly
and sighs_.]

KATIE: [_laughing_] Maybe you’ll look so han’some somebody’ll fall in
love with you.

JONES: If that’s the case the sooner she fixes it the better.

                       _Enter_ ROSIE _with comb_

ROSIE: Now you’re going to look terrible nice.

JONES: Yes, terrible, but not nice. [ROSIE _fusses with his hair until
she gets it parted in the middle to suit her; he sits making faces at
which the girls laugh_.]

KATIE: W’y, you _do_ look nice.

      _Enter_ MULLIGAN _and_ MRS. M. _each considerably fixed up_

MRS. M.: [_throwing up her hands_] My, my! Who’s this han’some man?
[_Laughs as she looks at_ JONES.]

KATIE: He’s got his hair fixed so he’ll look nice when DANNIE comes.

MULLIGAN: Well, now we’re all fussed up, what shall we do nixt?

JONES: [_looking at clock_] I know. You all go in the kitchen an’ stay
while I hide Christmas nuts and candies around the room. When I clap my
hands three times you are to come in and see how many you can find.

ROSIE: Oh, goody! I knew you’d do something nice if I parted your hair
in the middle.

KATIE: That will be lots of fun. Come on. [_They all start._]

JONES: Now, don’t you come in till I clap my hands, an’ if you dare
to peek you can’t hunt any nuts an’ candy. Off with you. [MULLIGAN,
MRS. M. _and the girls exeunt_.] Now, where is that stuff? [_Stands
thinking, looking off at side._ MISS HAGEN, _in nurse’s costume,
appears cautiously at side and peeps in_. JONES _puts finger on lips
for silence and goes over. They whisper, then both go off._]

            _Enter_ JONES _and_ MISS HAGEN, _helping_ DANNIE
                             _between them_

[JONES _moves easy chair silently to middle of room and they seat_
DANNIE _in it and take off his coat and cap. Nurse fixes his hair and
tie, then she stands at one side of room_, JONES _at the other and
claps his hands loudly, three times_.]

                  _Enter_ ROSIE, _running in quickly_

ROSIE: I’m going to find--oh, _oh_, OH!! [_Stops and looks at_ DANNIE.]

                      _Enter_ KATIE _very quickly_

KATIE: Did you find--oh, oh, _oh_, OH! [_Stops by_ ROSIE, _gazing_.]

                    _Enter_ MR. _and_ MRS. MULLIGAN

MRS. M.: My, my! Such noisy-- [_Screams._] Oh,--w’y-- [_Runs to_
DANNIE.]

MULLIGAN: It’s--DANNIE!

MRS. M.: It IS--DANNIE. [_Runs and kisses him._]

KATIE: [_clapping hands_] It’s DANNIE.

ROSIE: [_dancing up and down_] Our own DANNIE! [ROSIE _and_ KATIE
_stand close by him_.]

DANNIE: [_looking from one to another_] It’s the same bad boy himself.

NURSE: [_coming over_] Yes, it is DANNIE, and he has come to enjoy
Christmas eve with you. If you are real glad to see him he is going to
stay for Christmas day, too.

MULLIGAN: Oh, DANNIE, can--you-- [_Chokes and wipes eyes._]

MRS. M.: [_kneeling beside him_] Oh, DANNIE dear, can you--see? [_Wipes
eyes_.]

DANNIE: [_looking from one to another and wiping eyes_] I--I--

NURSE: [_happily_] Of course he can see. His eyes aren’t strong yet but
soon he will see as well as the rest of you.

MULLIGAN: Thank God! [_Wipes eyes_.]

MRS. M.: Oh, DANNIE, DANNIE! [_Bows head on_ DANNIE’S _knees_.]

KATIE: DANNIE, can you see me?

ROSIE: [_anxiously_] DANNIE, you can’t see that I have--have--

JONES: [_coming over and interrupting_] Say now, DANNIE, can you see
well enough to tell that ROSIE has red hair?

ROSIE: I never have, have I, DANNIE?

DANNIE: [_who has been looking from one to the other_] Mother darlin’,
hold up yer head so’s I can see you. [_She looks at him wiping her
eyes._] I always knew you were beautiful. [MRS. M. _rises_.]

MULLIGAN: She is that, DANNIE. [_He leans on back of_ DANNIE’S
_chair_.]

JONES: [_striking attitude_] Now DANNIE, ain’t I han’some too? [_Puffs
out cheeks, and makes pop eyes. Others laugh._]

NURSE: DANNIE has had the bandages off his eyes part of the time for
several days but we did not let you know because he wanted to give
you a happy Christmas surprise. Tomorrow is going to be the merriest
Christmas he ever has had and I’m sure the rest of you will be happy
because he can see you all.

MULLIGAN: Sure we will that.

KATIE: And we don’t want any other present except to have DANNIE see.

ROSIE: I don’t even want a doll, I’m so glad to have DANNIE get his
eyes.

MRS. M.: [_briskly_] Oh, Nurse, dear, here we all stand so excited
about DANNIE that we never even ask you to sit down. PETER, where’s
your manners, man? [JONES _politely places chair for nurse_.]

MULLIGAN: On the top shelf of the cupboard in a chiny tay-cup.

ROSIE: Shall I get them for you, papa? [_Others laugh._]

MULLIGAN: No, I’m that upset over DANNIE that I can’t make use of ’em
yet awhile. [MRS. MULLIGAN _arranges chairs and all sit except the two
girls, who lean against the back of_ DANNIE’S _chair_.]

DANNIE: [_who has continued to look at one after another_] Why didn’t
you folks ever tell me that I belonged to such a nice-lookin’ fam’ly?

JONES: That’s what I say. Why didn’t anyone tell him what a han’some
fellow I am? I’ll not stay here, I’m that put out about it. [_Slips
from room._]

MULLIGAN: Now this would be a grand Christmas eve if I jest had a few
prisints for yez all. All the years we’ve been keepin’ house, NORA,
this is the first time I haven’t given you a Christmas treat.

NURSE: Oh, I’m sure this is the finest treat you’ve ever given them,
MR. MULLIGAN, to be able to have DANNIE’S eyes treated.

MULLIGAN: [_shaking head sadly_] But Christmas ain’t Christmas without
the treat.

                   _Enter_ JONES _with large basket_

JONES: What’s that about a Christmas treat? Well, here it comes. I met
Santy Claus down on the corner an’ he said a fam’ly who did so well
savin’ up money to get a boy’s eyes fixed must have a little pay for
it. NURSE, you might help me give these out. [_He puts basket on chair,
takes out packages and hands to_ NURSE _who gives them to family_.]

ROSIE: Oh, goody!

MRS. M.: Now, such a man!

JONES: Something for-- [_studies over name_] PETER MULLIGAN. Well,
he don’t deserve it but let him have it, NURSE. This is for--well,
well--ROSIE. Queer that Santy remembered her when she’s so full of
mischief. And this is for--KATIE who’s another one full of mischief.
Here’s a package for--MRS. MULLIGAN an’ she’s to wear it on Christmas
day. Now here is something for DANNIE who has been a good boy while his
eyes were being made well. This is for-- [_pretends to study name_]
w’y, it’s for the good NURSE who has taken care of DANNIE. Here [_peeks
into bag_] is some Christmas candy, but mind you, KATIE and ROSIE, that
you don’t make yourselves sick. Here [_peeps into bag_] are some nuts
to go with the candy. Here at the bottom of the basket is something
that I believe is for me--a nice, fat chicken for Christmas dinner.

ROSIE: [_who has unwrapped her package_] Oh, oh, _two_ dolls!

NURSE: Isn’t that nice to have twins?

KATIE: I have a pretty string of beads.

DANNIE: And I have a book with splendid pictures. Won’t it be grand to
be able to see them? Christmas is getting better ev’ry minute. I didn’t
know anybody could be so happy.

NURSE: My present is a nice box of candy. I certainly thank Santa
Claus. [_Bows to Jones._]

KATIE: I think it’s sweet candy for a sweet lady.

JONES: [_aside_] That’s what I think only I don’t dare say so.

MRS. M.: I know I’ll look nice, if I do say so myself as
shouldn’t--wearing this lovely collar tomorrow. My, my, how happy we
are. Just as soon as tomorrow morning comes, KATIE, you an’ ROSIE must
run over with some of the nuts an’ candy for the FLEMMING childers,
poor little dears.

ROSIE: Oh, mama, can’t I take one of my dolls to little MARY? I know
she won’t get any.

MULLIGAN: Sure, that will be fine, ROSIE.

NURSE: The best thing about Christmas is to be able to share our joys
with someone else. [_Knock is heard_; KATIE _runs over and ushers in
the visitors_.]

       _Enter_ MRS. O’BRIEN _and_ PATSY, _each carrying a basket_

MRS. O’B.: [_stopping short_] Well, now, see who’s here? Is it DANNIE
himself?

PATSY: I’ll be blessed! It’s sure DANNIE. You young scamp, you, what’d
you come home like this for without letting us know?

DANNIE: [_laughing_] Isn’t it the fine Christmas joke I played?

PATSY: Just for that, you brazen scallawag, I’m a good notion to take
my Christmas basket back home an’ never let yez have a peep at what’s
in it. [MRS. O’BRIEN _and_ PATSY _set down their baskets and shake
hands with_ DANNIE; MRS. O’BRIEN _kisses him and_ PATSY _pats him on
the shoulder_.]

ROSIE: An’ DANNIE can see, he can.

DANNIE: Yes, I sure can see. MRS. O’BRIEN, you’ve got on [_he gives
some items about her dress and hat_] an’ it’s nice lookin’ you are, but
not so han’some as me mother.

MRS. M.: Now, now, DANNIE, to talk so to MRS. O’BRIEN. [_She places
chairs for the_ O’BRIEN’S.]

MRS. O’B.: Niver ye mind, DANNIE, when I’m out with a bunch o’ han’some
wimmen on a pitch black night I’m as good-lookin’ as any of ’em.

DANNIE: Tomorrow when I eat Christmas dinner I can see what ev’rything
looks like.

PATSY:

  Little DANNIE MULLIGAN’LL sit at the table,
    Eating Christmas cake an’ pies;
  He’ll pull out a plum on the end o’ his thumb,
    An’ look at it with his new eyes.

DANNIE: [_laughing_] An’ won’t it be the best dinner I’ve ever had?

MRS. O’B.: It sure will, DANNIE, an’ let me tell yez that the very
reason it’s goin’ to be so good is ’cause I’ve brought yez over some
fine eatybles in these baskets from mesilf an’ some of the other
neighbors as wanted to show our tinder affection for the MULLIGANS.

NURSE: Isn’t that splendid, DANNIE, to have such lovely friends? I call
it fine to be remembered this way when you’ve been having such a hard
time.

MULLIGAN: I call it fine to be helped out when things have been bad for
us in money matters. Me pocketbook has got so flat, payin’ DANNIE’S
bills that I didn’t have the where-with to buy a Christmas dinner.

MRS. M.: But now, praise be to our good friends, we can ask poor MRS.
DUGAN an’ little JIMMIE over for dinner with us.

DANNIE: That will be fine.

PATSY: Sure, now, I most forgot there’s some candy here that’s to be
eaten on Christmas eve or it won’t taste good a-tall a-tall. [_He gets
a sack from his basket and passes around candy, each one taking a stick
which they begin eating._]

JONES: DANNIE, does candy taste better when you can see it?

DANNIE: It does that.

MRS. M.: I’d sure like to make a nice speech to thank these kind
fri’nds fer all this Christmas joy they’ve gone an’ brought to us, but
me heart’s so full I can’t.

JONES: I’d be glad to make it for you, MRS. MULLIGAN, but my _mouth_ is
too full--of candy. [_Pops a piece into his mouth._]

PATSY: We don’t want any thanks. Christmas is the time whin we do
things fer the pleasure o’ doin’ ’em. An’ we’re that glad ’bout DANNIE
we feel like doin’ a whole lot more.

  Of all the merry Christmas days
  That DANNIE ever did see,
  Tomorrow’ll be the best, you’ll see,
  Of any he ever did see,
  ’Cause DANNIE can see, you see.

MRS. O’B.: Now, PATSY, do be quittin’ makin’ up such foolishniss in yer
silly head. Santy Claus won’t be after bringin’ ye any prisint if ye
don’t behave.

PATSY:

  Little PATSY,--watsy--wause,
  Didn’t git nothin’ from Santy Claus. Ha, ha!

KATIE: Let’s play a game.

JONES: We used to play a game called “Kiss the Cook.” When someone like
MRS. O’BRIEN had made some Christmas cookies or cakes, the one who
chased her an’ stole a kiss got some of her baking to eat. [_Others
laugh._] Now I’m going to steal a kiss from MRS. O’BRIEN an’ get a
cookie.

MRS. O’BRIEN: [_jumping up_] Indade, ye’ll not kiss me, MISTER JONES.
[_She starts to run around the room as fast as she can go_, JONES
_after her, the others cheering them and laughing_. KATIE _and_ _Rosie_
_dance about and clap their hands_. JONES _bumps into a chair and falls
onto the floor_.]

DANNIE: That’s the first race I’ve ever seen.

MRS. O’B.: I know it’s sorry ye are to lose the kiss, MISTER JONES, so
I’ll be after givin’ ye a cookie. [_She gives him one from her basket._]

NURSE: Now, DANNIE, it is getting time for a tired boy to go to sleep,
so we’ll have our song.

DANNIE: Oh, yes.

NURSE: DANNIE and I wrote this song for you to sing on Christmas eve.
We want you all to help. [_She gives out pieces of paper with the
words._] It goes this way. [_She hums the tune of “Yankee Doodle.”_]
Let’s stand by DANNIE to sing. [KATIE _and_ ROSIE _kneel in front of
him; his father and mother stand back of him_; MRS. O’BRIEN _and_ NURSE
_on one side_, PATSY _and_ JONES _on the other. They sing_]:

  Once DANNIE’S eyes were shut up tight,
    He could not see a mite, sir;
  The doctor fixed them good as new,
    And DANNIE got his sight, sir.
  Merry, merry Christmas day,
    DANNIE now can see, sir;
  He has brought home two good eyes,
    He’s happy as can be, sir.

MULLIGAN: That’s fine! Let’s sing it again. [_They sing it still more
lustily._]

MRS. O’B.: ’Tis home we must be goin’ an’ we wish the MULLIGANS a
splendid merry Christmas.

MRS. M.: Peace an’ goodwill on earth an’ a merry Christmas to ev’rybody.


CURTAIN



Transcriber’s Notes


Obvious typographical errors have been silently corrected. Variations
in hyphenation and accents have been standardized but all other
spelling and punctuation remains unchanged.

Italics are represented thus _italic_ and bold thus =bold=.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHRISTMAS EVE AT
MULLIGAN'S ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
