The Project Gutenberg eBook of High-class cookery made easy, by J.
Hart

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: High-class cookery made easy

Author: J. Hart

Release Date: November 12, 2022 [eBook #69334]

Language: English

Produced by: David E. Brown and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team
             at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
             generously made available by The Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HIGH-CLASS COOKERY MADE
EASY ***





  HIGH-CLASS COOKERY
  MADE EASY.

  BY MRS. HART.

  [Illustration]

  EDINBURGH:
  LORIMER & GILLIES, PRINTERS,
  31 ST. ANDREW SQUARE.




PREFATORY NOTE.


I have written this book for Young Ladies and inexperienced Cooks, as a
simple guide for them in Cookery. I have had a practical cooking-class
for some time in various towns, where I have proved my recipes by
cooking them for the ladies.

I have been asked to form a book of these recipes, as most Cookery
Books are not suitable for economical households; and the result is now
submitted to the public.

I have learnt from experience what is wanted in a kitchen, and
therefore the instructions given are such that any one can follow them
without difficulty.

I intend, as soon as possible, to publish another little work, with
additional recipes, as time has failed me to give, in the present
publication, all the recipes that I think of importance.

                                                                   J. H.




CONTENTS.


                                   PAGE

  SOUPS,                              8

  FISH,                              14

  ECONOMICAL MADE-DISHES,            20

  ENTRÉES,                           23

  SAUCES OF ENTRÉES,                 27

  STOCK FOR SAUCES OR ENTRÉES,       30

  JOINTS IN GENERAL,                 31

  SAUCES FOR JOINTS,                 40

  PUDDINGS,                          42

  PUDDING SAUCES,                    48

  SAVOURY DISHES,                    49

  VEGETABLES,                        53

  CAKES, AND ICINGS FOR CAKES,       55

  THE DIFFERENT KINDS OF PASTE,      61




[Illustration]

HIGH-CLASS COOKERY MADE EASY.


At the outset we have to remind all who read these pages, that great
pains must be taken to have all pans and dishes scrupulously clean. In
cleaning copper pans, attend to the following directions:--If there are
any lemon skins left from cooking, boil them in salt and water, dip
a piece of flannel in the liquid, and rub your pan well. Then rinse
with cold water, and dry with a linen cloth. Every pan must be rinsed
or dusted out before being used, for the smallest speck of dirt will
destroy a whole panful of sauce; and good sauces are the foundation of
good cooking.

Cooks cannot be too careful in keeping their sauce-pans scrupulously
clean. To clean ordinary pans, place them on the fire with some water
and a little washing soda, and let the water get hot. Then wash out
your pan, rub lightly with a few ashes and rinse with clean water.

Keep a pan for omelets only.




SOUPS.

The first duty of the cook or housekeeper is to have a stock made ready
for soups, gravies, and sauces. On the care given to this point greatly
depend the comfort and success of the dinner. I will now try to explain
how, with a little care and pains, this can always be done, and the
same stock used for several soups. To make--


BROWN SOUP.

Procure a nap-bone, five lbs.; have the bone well broken into very
small pieces, and wash it in salt and water. Cut off the meat, and
brown it in the frying-pan, with an onion. Put the nap-bone and fried
meat into a convenient-sized soup-pot with eight quarts of cold water,
and when it comes to the boil, set it to the side of the fire, to throw
up the scum and grease; remove these as they rise, and boil slowly,
with a head of celery, for six hours; then strain, and have it clear,
to make the different kinds of clear soup. I will afterwards give the
names of these.

For thick soups, or gravies, or sauces, put back the same meat and
bones of the first stock into the pot, and put on eight quarts more of
water. Boil for six hours,--longer, if it is cold weather. Vegetables,
such as carrots and turnips, may be put into the stock, but not in warm
weather. Strain this stock, and it will do for thick soup or purées of
vegetables.


JULIENNE SOUP.

Take the red part of a carrot, part of a turnip, and the white part of
a head of celery, leek, and onion; cut these into thin shreds about an
inch long, and boil in a pint of water. Pour off the water from the
vegetables, and add them to the clear brown soup. Season with pepper
and salt, and whatever sauce is preferred.


PERSIAN SOUP.

Cut carrot, turnip, and lettuce leaves, with a round vegetable-cutter,
to the size of a threepenny piece, and boil tender in a separate
sauce-pan, strain and add to clear brown soup. A glass of sherry added
to the soup is an improvement, but this may be omitted.


MOCK TURTLE SOUP.

Procure a calf’s head, and parboil in plenty of water, with a spoonful
of salt, till tender. When the calf’s head is cold, by steeping in cold
water, trim the head from all gristle, and press it between two ashets
till morning; then cut it in dice pieces. Make a thick soup in the
following manner: take three ounces of clarified fat and one onion, and
brown over the fire; add two ounces of flour, and brown; stir in two
quarts bree of head, keeping stirred gently to prevent burning; draw
over to the side of the fire to boil slowly and throw up the scum. Put
in the pieces of head, and boil if necessary a little longer; put a
glass of Madeira wine in the tureen, and a pinch of cayenne pepper.


SOUP À LA ROYAL.

Switch the yolks of two eggs and the white of one with a glass of
stock, season with pepper and salt. Grease a small tea-cup that will
hold it, and steam for ten minutes. Let the custard stand till cold,
then cut in dice pieces, and drop into a basin of water; and when the
clear brown soup is hot, drop in the dice pieces of custard. Serve with
a flavouring of Worcestershire sauce in the soup.


CURRY SOUP.

Peel and slice one onion, and put into a stew-pan with two ounces of
butter. Fry of a light-brown colour one apple, and as soon as this is
dissolved, mix three ounces of flour, one tablespoonful of curry paste,
and one tablespoonful of curry powder. Then add three quarts of stock,
by degrees, keeping it stirred while pouring in the soup. Let it simmer
by the side of the fire. Remove the scum, and pour through a strainer.
Put back into the soup-pot, to keep hot; and serve with boiled rice.


HOW TO BOIL RICE FOR THIS SOUP.

Put on a tea-cupful of rice to boil in cold water and salt; boil for
fifteen minutes, then strain through a colander. Rinse the rice under
the hot-water tap, and set in the oven to dry. Shake several times to
keep the grains separated. Dish, and hand round with curry soup.


KIDNEY SOUP.

Get one ox kidney, cut it in small pieces and put it on to stew in a
pan with half an onion and an ounce of butter, and let the kidneys
brown; then add a quart of cold water, and let the kidneys stew for one
hour; then strain the stock from kidneys and rinse the scum that lies
round the kidneys; add the stock from the kidneys to three quarts of
second stock, and place in another sauce-pan three ounces of flour, two
ounces of dripping, and brown with onion. When this is browned, add the
stock gradually to prevent it lumping, then the kidneys; let it simmer
at side of stove for half-an-hour; skim off the scum that rises.


PURÉE DE POIS.

Get two quarts of green peas and boil till soft, with a handful of
parsley, in just what water covers the peas. When the peas are ready,
strain the water from them into two quarts of good strong stock, pass
the green peas through a wire and hair sieve, and add to the stock a
glass of cream, and one spoonful of flour.


PURÉE DE TOMATO.

Put into a stew-pan two carrots, one turnip, one onion, two dozen
tomatoes, two ounces of butter, and one quart of second stock, and stew
till tender. Pass this through a wire and hair sieve, if too thick, add
stock to make it the thickness of cream.


PURÉE OF CARROTS.

Boil the red part of four carrots, one onion, with a cup of rice, till
very soft, then pass all through a wire and hair sieve, and add second
stock to this purée to make it the thickness of cream.


OYSTER SOUP.

Use whatever fish bones may be over from filleting fish--failing these,
get a cod’s head, and boil for twenty minutes in three quarts of water,
and strain. Have two dozen of oysters bearded and scalded. Have a
spoonful of butter and one of flour melted, not browned. Strain your
soup, and add it to butter and flour, along with a gill of cream for
every pint of soup. Add your oysters--two for each person--which have
been bearded and scalded, and boil three minutes. Before putting the
soup into your tureen, switch up the yolk of an egg in the tureen, then
pour the soup over, stirring all the time.


WHITE SOUP.

The boiling of fowl, bones of rabbits, a nap of veal bone, or trimmings
of mutton cutlets can be used to make this soup, with a small piece of
mace. For every quart of strong white stock place in a pot one ounce of
flour and half-an-ounce of butter, and melt it over the fire; then add
the boiling stock, a cup of milk, and a gill of cream, and when ready
to serve, have the yolk of an egg switched in the tureen and pour the
boiling soup on it.


HARE SOUP.

After the hare is skinned, wipe it clean on the outside. Great care
must be taken not to lose the blood. Keep the blood in a basin. Place
the hare in a pot with cold water, and a small nap-bone broken; when
it boils, skim and draw to side of fire to boil for four hours; put in
one carrot, one head celery, and one onion. When the hare is done, keep
some of the best parts to serve in tureen, then make a brown roux with
three ounces of clarified fat, three ounces of flour, and the blood of
hare, and brown over the fire; then add the stock of hare, draw to side
of fire to throw up the scum. Skim it well, and pass through a hair
sieve; return to pot and put in the pieces of hare; pepper and salt.
When in the tureen, put in a glass of port wine.


TO MAKE BROWNING FOR SOUPS.

Put one ounce of brown sugar in an iron sauce-pan, and with one
spoonful of water a tiny piece of butter. Stir with an iron spoon till
browned a dark colour. Add a tea-cupful of cold water, and boil for
ten minutes; strain and bottle for colouring soups and sauces. Use a
tea-spoonful to colour your soups and sauces, if not already brown
enough.




FISH.


BOILED FISH WITH EGG SAUCE.

Turn the tail through the eyes, place in a pan and cover with water and
a little salt. Allow eight minutes to each pound of fish. For the egg
sauce, melt one spoonful of butter and one of flour; when smooth, add
gradually one gill of boiling water. Be careful to keep stirring with
back of the spoon till all the water is added. Have a hard-boiled egg
chopped fine to add to the sauce, and serve in a butter-boat. Have a
napkin neatly folded on an ashet, lay your fish on it, and garnish with
parsley.


FRIED HADDOCK.

I may here tell you about boiling lard. To know when it is hot enough
for frying fish, &c., put a small piece of bread in, and if it browns
quickly, the lard is ready. If it is inclined to burn, put in a small
piece of potato.

Cut your haddock up the back and take the flesh from the bones; cut
each side in two, making in all four pieces. Dip each piece first in
flour, then in a little batter made of flour and water, or in a beat-up
egg; then in bread-crumbs, and fry in the boiling lard. Fried parsley
should be served with it.


TO MAKE FISH STOCK FOR SAUCES OR SOUPS.

Take any white fish bones you may have, and put them into a pan with
three cloves, an onion, pepper, salt, a few herbs according to taste,
and a piece of maize, enough to cover a threepenny piece. Cover with
water, and boil slowly half-an-hour; then strain through a sieve, and
set in a cool place till required.


HADDOCK À LA MAÎTRE D’HÔTEL.

Have some filleted haddocks; lay the fillets one across the other on
a plate that will stand the fire, with a small piece of butter on the
top, and some pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. Cover with a greased
paper, and bake in a moderate oven ten minutes. For sauce, melt one
ounce of butter and one ounce of flour in a pan, add a cup of milk by
degrees, and a little cream if you have it, and a few drops of lemon
juice. Dish your fish in a hot corner-dish, with the sauce over it.


MERLAN AU GRATIN.

Have some whitings skinned, with their tails turned through their eyes.
Butter a dish that will stand the fire, sprinkle some bread-crumbs, and
brown in the oven. Serve with a brown sauce made in the ordinary way--a
brown sauce made of butter, flour, and water.


WHITINGS BROILED.

Skin and flour your whitings. Grease your gridiron with a buttered
paper; lay on the fish; keep it a little distance from the fire at
first. Time to cook, twenty minutes. Dish on a napkin, garnish with
parsley, and serve with melted butter in a sauce-boat.


BOILED HERRINGS À LA CRÊME.

Boil any quantity of herrings you require ten minutes in water, with
a little salt; dish them without a napkin. Have ready the following
sauce: Put six table-spoonfuls of cream in a stew-pan, with a little
pepper and salt. When nearly boiling add an ounce of fresh butter and
the juice of half a lemon. Stir it quickly, and pour it over the fish
when sent to table.


TURBOT WITH SPAWN SAUCE.

Cook your turbot as in first recipe; only, instead of cream sauce,
use the following: Get from the fishmonger’s about two ounces of fish
spawn, and pound it in a mortar along with three ounces of butter; rub
through a sieve, place it in a cold place to firm, then put it in a
stew-pan with the yolks of two eggs, a little pepper and salt, four
tea-spoonfuls of lemon juice, half-a-cup of melted butter, and two
tea-spoonfuls of anchovy. Pass it through a tammie, put into a clean
pan and make it hot. Have your fish on a hot dish, then pour the sauce
over it.


TURBOT WITH CREAM SAUCE.

Turbot must be well rubbed with salt and lemon before being put into
water. Have a large fish-kettle, and to every pound of turbot allow a
quart of water, and to every quart of water put in two ounces of salt.
A piece of turbot weighing four pounds will require to simmer twenty
minutes. Lift out the fish with a drainer when done, and cover with a
clean cloth. If sauce is wanted, dish without a napkin; if not wanted,
dish on a napkin, with some slices of lemon and parsley. For the sauce,
put one ounce of butter and the same of flour in a pan and melt over
the fire; add a breakfast-cupful of milk, a little good cream, the
yolk of an egg beat-up, some pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon.
This sauce may be either poured over the turbot, or served up in a
butter-boat.


SMELTS FRIED.

Dry the fish on a napkin, dip them in very thick cream, and immediately
afterwards in flour, so that it forms a paste round them. Fry them in
very hot lard, dress them on a napkin, and garnish with fried parsley.
No sauce is required.


STUFFED FISH.

Fillet two large haddocks, make a veal stuffing, and spread over the
fillets. Roll up. Sprinkle some bread-crumbs over and small bits of
butter, bake in the oven for fifteen minutes, till brown; pour a brown
sauce over.


MELTED BUTTER.

Place two ounces of butter and two ounces of flour in a sauce-pan and
melt. Stir in two cups of boiling water, switch quickly while pouring
in the water. If rich sauce is required, add one ounce more of butter,
with pepper and salt. This is the foundation of a number of other
sauces such as--egg, shrimp, lobster, oyster, anchovy, giving the name
to the sauce according to what is added. But if it be oyster, the
liquor of the oysters must be added; also a little cream and white
pepper.


CRIMPED SALMON.

Let two quarts of water be boiling in a stew-pan with two ounces of
salt, lay in two slices of salmon (if more salmon is required add more
water), boil quickly for fifteen or twenty minutes. Try the bone in the
middle, and if it leaves easily, the fish is ready. Do not leave the
fish in the water, as it spoils it. To keep a nice red colour, skim the
water while boiling. If it has to be kept, owing to the dinner being
later, put a hot wet cloth over it and set it in a warm cupboard. Serve
with shrimp or lobster sauce.


FILLET HADDOCKS À LA MAÎTRE D’HOTÊL.

Skin and fillet two haddocks, lay the fillets across each other on a
dish that will stand the fire. Sprinkle some pepper and salt, place
some bits of butter on the top, cover with a greased white paper, and
cook in the oven for ten minutes. Serve with sauce à la maître d’hôtel.


TURBOT BAKED.

Cook a turbot as before mentioned, but boil only ten minutes instead of
twenty. Make a brown sauce in the ordinary way, and have some chopped
parsley, chopped capers, and an onion cut in rings. Place your fish in
a baking dish, pour the sauce over it, then sprinkle parsley, onion,
and bread-crumbs, along with some small pieces of butter on the top,
and bake in a hot oven.


PLAIN BOILED SALMON.

Put your fish in cold water (a pound of salt to every six quarts of
water), cover it well with the water, and set it to simmer over a
moderate fire. A fish weighing four pounds requires half-an-hour to
boil, and one eight pounds three-quarters of an hour. Serve with shrimp
or lobster sauce.


SAUCE À LA MAÎTRE D’HÔTEL.

Place in a sauce-pan half-an-ounce of butter, half-an-ounce of flour,
and melt over the fire; then add a tea-cupful of milk, a tea-spoonful
of chopped parsley, and boil for fifteen minutes; then a squeeze of a
lemon and a glass of cream.


SAUCE À LA REGENCE.

Place one cupful of fish liquor in a sauce-pan with the red part of
half a carrot, half an onion, a small piece of turnip cut in thin
stripes, an inch in length. Boil till tender, then add two ounces of
browned flour and butter, pepper and salt. This sauce will do for
stewed fish.




ECONOMICAL MADE-DISHES.


HASH OF MUTTON.

Take some slices of mutton from a cold joint, as many as are required.
Season with pepper and salt, and make a sauce as follows: Place in a
sauce-pan one ounce of flour, one ounce of butter, and brown it over
the fire. Then add a breakfast-cupful of stock. Keep stirring the sauce
while pouring in the stock, boil for a few minutes, add mutton and a
few drops of Harvey’s sauce, and a few green capers. Next, have a dish
with a border of mashed potatoes, or a border of rice; egg on the top,
and brown in the oven. Dish the mutton. In the centre, on the top,
place a few tomatoes that have been stewed in a glass of water, with
half-an-ounce of butter, pepper, and salt. Place the tomatoes whole on
the top of the dish.


HEDGEHOG OF MUTTON.

Boil two ounces of macaroni till soft, and put it on to boil in cold
water. When it is boiled, cut it in short pieces; grease a pint basin,
and stick the macaroni round the bottom and sides of the basin.
Next, take one ounce of butter, one ounce of flour, and brown; add a
tea-cupful of stock, a few chopped mushrooms, a few leaves of parsley,
pepper, and salt, half-pound of cold mutton minced fine, put into a
basin and steam for fifteen minutes, and serve with a brown sauce.


CRISQUETTES OF MUTTON.

Make the mutton ready as above, only have five or six pieces bacon
cut in square pieces, and instead of putting into a basin, put a
tea-spoonful into the middle of each piece. Egg on the top, and fold
in the shape of sausage rolls. Then make a batter with two spoonfuls
of flour and a little milk; wet it gradually with the back of a wooden
spoon, till you get it to the thickness of cream, then switch the yolk
and white of an egg separately; mix both together, and stir in the
batter, and dip your rolls in it--see that the bacon is very thinly
cut, so that it will fry in hot lard. Have some sprigs of parsley fried
to garnish with. Serve any kind of nice vegetables in centre.


STUFFED CUCUMBERS.

Put two cucumbers on to stew, peeled, in a pint of stock. When tender,
take them up, cut them into two-inch lengths for stuffing. The remains
of any cold chicken, or rabbit, or veal will do. Have it minced fine,
with a drop of any sauces liked, such as Mushroom, Worcestershire,
Harvey, and a little flour, parsley, pepper, and salt. Fill up the
cucumbers, place them in the stew-pan to get hot, and serve the gravy
over. Fill the centre with white beans for a garnish.


TIMBALES OF MACARONI.

Boil one ounce of macaroni till tender, then cut it into very short
pieces; take a wire and place it round the side of the timbale moulds,
when greased; make a mince of cold mutton, or chicken, or rabbit; place
a cupful of mince on the fire, with two glasses of stock, pepper and
salt, and sprinkle of dried herbs, a few drops of mushroom ketchup, a
half-ounce of bread-crumbs, and the yolk of two eggs stirred into the
mince. Fill the timbale moulds, steam for fifteen minutes, and serve
with tomato sauce. Fill the centre with potatoes fried, cut the size of
walnuts.


TOMATOES FARCIE.

Take a slice off the end of a dozen of tomatoes, and empty out the
centre; mix it with one ounce of butter, two ounces of chopped mutton
or chicken or veal or rabbit, pepper, salt, Worcester sauce, a few
bread-crumbs. Fill the tomatoes, and stew in a half-pint good stock,
and serve with a little tomato sauce round the base.


DEVILED BEEF.

Take a few slices from cold roast beef, take a tea-spoonful of mustard,
a pinch of salt, a drop of Worcestershire sauce, and a tea-spoonful of
water; mix to a cream; spread over the beef; broil before a clear fire;
a few drops of strong gravy poured round the base.


CHICKEN MERINDS.

Take the legs and wings of a roast chicken, and dip in a batter made
as follows:--Three spoonfuls of flour, one tea-spoonful baking-powder
wet with sweet milk to the thickness of a thick cream. Switch the yolk
and white of an egg separately. Take a few leaves of parsley chopped,
pepper and salt; add to the batter, and fry in a pan of boiling lard or
oil. Serve with fried parsley, and garnish with tomatoes. If garnishes
cannot be obtained serve without.




ENTRÉES.


OYSTER PÂTÉS.

Beard and blanch one dozen of oysters. Make a sauce as follows: one
ounce of butter, three-quarter ounce of flour. Melt over the fire; add
half-a-cup of milk, half-a-cup of cream, and the liquor of the oysters;
strain; reduce the sauce till it resumes the appearance of a cream; add
the oysters, and have a dozen or fourteen pâtés made of puff paste;
bake and fill the pâtés.


SWEETBREADS FRIED.

Lay two sweetbreads to soak in cold water and salt for two hours; put
them on to boil, covered in cold water and salt; simmer slowly for one
hour. Remove all the grit and skin, and cut the sweetbreads in the
shape of a mutton cutlet; pepper and salt, egg and bread-crumb. Dish
with fried parsley and green peas in centre.


LARDED FILLETS OF BEEF.

Take bacon, cut as for larded sweetbreads, and lard in the same manner.
Place a few pieces of chopped suet at the bottom of a stew-pan, half
an onion, one clove, a slight sprinkling of flour, brown, and add one
cup of second stock. Cover with a close lid, and simmer slowly for one
hour. Dish the fillets of beef, skim the grease, and sprinkle a few
mushrooms in the sauce, and serve.


PLAIN MUTTON CUTLETS.

Take one and a-quarter lb. of mutton, divide it into chops by cutting
down where the vein is in the bone. There is a bone at the fleshy end
of the chop, take that off. Take all the fat clean away from the bone;
scrape the bone clean; flatten the meat with a mallet dipped in cold
water, then dip in egg and bread-crumb; fry to a light-brown colour,
and serve with tomato sauce. Garnish with a few tomatoes round the base.


SWEETBREADS SERVED IN BEETROOT PÂTÉS.

Cook two large beetroots cut in the shape of oyster pâtés. Have one
sweetbread cut in tiny pieces, and drop into a cup of thick, white
sauce. Make six beetroot pâtés, fill them up with the preparation, and
garnish with tiny bits of parsley round the beetroot. The remains of
cold sweetbreads, or any kind of white meat, will do for this entrée.


CREAM OF CHICKEN.

Take the flesh from the breast of a chicken, place it in a mortar, and
pound for ten minutes. Have two slices of bread soaked in milk; press
the milk from it; pound it in the mortar with the chicken and the yolk
of two eggs; pepper and salt. Pass through a wire and hair sieve; add a
gill of switched cream; grease any kind of fancy shapes, and steam for
ten minutes; turn out, and garnish with dice-cut pieces of ham, white
of egg, and truffle. Dish on a border of mashed potatoes, and serve
with sauce suprême. Serve green peas in the centre of this entrée.


CREAM OF RABBIT.

Take the fillets of the back of two rabbits; scrape and pound in a
mortar with one ounce of butter, the yolks of two eggs; soak two slices
of bread in sweet milk, press the milk out and pound in the mortar;
pass through a wire and hair sieve. Switch a glass of cream and the
white of the two eggs, and add to the pounded rabbit. Steam in timbale
moulds, covered with white paper for fifteen minutes. Serve with a
cream sauce, and fill the centre with a few whole tomatoes, stewed in a
glass of water, with a half-ounce of butter; pepper and salt.


LARDED SWEETBREADS

are cooked in the same way as for frying--the first part. Keep the
sweetbreads whole, trim them neatly, and have twenty stripes of bacon
two inches long, and with a larding needle draw the bacon gently
through the sweetbreads, reversing the lines. Place in a stew-pan
with one ounce of butter, and brown the sweetbreads to a light-brown
colour; pour over half-pint of stock or water; simmer slowly for
twenty minutes. Take a spoonful of butter and flour, and add to the
sweetbreads a few chopped mushrooms; pepper and salt. Strain the sauce
over the sweetbreads, garnish with Brussels sprouts in the centre.


FILLET OF BEEF WITH FRIED POTATO CHIPS.

Take one pound and a-quarter of fillet steak, cut it into four round
slices, broil before a clear fire; have one ounce of fresh butter mixed
with a few leaves of chopped parsley; pepper and salt; form into round
balls, and place on the top of the broiled steak. Serve with fried
potato chips. Peel and slice four potatoes into a basin with salt and
water; dry on a clean towel, and fry in hot lard. Serve round the
fillets of beef.


ENTRÉE RABBIT À LA TARTE.

Take the fillets of two young rabbits, flatten them with a rolling-pin
dipped in cold water. Dip in beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and fry
a light-brown colour. Dish in a corner-dish, with a ring of mashed
potatoes. On the bottom of the dish serve with sauce à la tarte.

These entrées will be found most economical for housekeeping, when
served before dinner or for lunch with cold roast beef, garnished and
glazed in the way described for glazing hams or tongues.

All entrées should be dished with a ring of mashed potatoes, or a ring
on the bottom of the dish of rice, and dished in a circle, a garnish of
vegetables in the centre, and sauce round the base.




SAUCES OF ENTRÉES.


SAUCE AU SUPRÊME.

Take the bones of a fowl of which the flesh has been used for entrées;
break the bones in small pieces; boil them gently in a pint of water,
with one clove, one onion, and a piece of carrot and turnip, two
ounces of salt bacon. Boil for one hour, strain, and make the sauce as
follows:--Place in a sauce-pan one ounce of butter and one of flour;
brown over the fire to a light-brown colour; pour in the chicken stock;
boil till it adheres to the back of the spoon; add one spoonful of
tomato sauce, pepper and salt, and use where required. Add a glass of
sherry if wanted.


SALMIS SAUCES.

Take one cupful of game stock, made from trimmings of roast game, add
one ounce of browned flour and butter, one glass of port wine, and a
pinch of red pepper and salt.


RUSSIAN SAUCE.

Place a stew-pan on the fire, slice three onions, let them brown in one
ounce of butter, a pinch of pepper and salt; cover with a tight cover
till the onions are dissolved; add one ounce of flour, a cup of stock,
a glass of cream; stir over the fire for five minutes; pass through a
pointed strainer; keep hot in the banbery.

What is meant by a banbery for keeping sauces a young cook may not
know. I will explain. Procure a square-topped pan almost like a
roasting-pan, and fill it half-full of boiling water. Set the little
pans into it, to keep sauces hot when made, and to prevent them
burning. Set the sauces in with small bits of butter on the top, so as
not to let a skin form.


TO MAKE BROWN SAUCE.

Take four ounces of butter, place it in a sauce-pan with four ounces of
flour, and brown over the fire; then with a wooden spoon stir the sauce
gradually while pouring in a quart and a pint of second stock, made in
the way laid down for boiling stocks. Boil till it thickens and adheres
to the back of the spoon; add a few drops of Worcestershire sauce.
One-fourth of this sauce will do for a single entrée. Mushrooms can be
added.


TRUFFLE SAUCE.

Mince two truffles, and place in a stew-pan with a cupful of brown
sauce; boil for a quarter of an hour; add a glass of sherry.


TOMATO SAUCE.

Stew a few tomatoes in pepper and salt till tender, with the red part
of one carrot. Pass through a wire and hair sieve, with two ounces of
butter, into a stew-pan, one ounce of flour, and melt; add a cup and
a-half of water; stir the tomato into the sauce.


WHITE SAUCE.

Take one ounce of flour, one ounce of butter, and melt it over the
fire, then add a tea-cupful of strong white stock made in the way
given for making white stock, one tea-cupful of milk, and a glass of
cream. To this sauce may be added a squeeze of lemon, chopped parsley,
mushrooms, or truffles.


VEGETABLE SAUCE.

Take some young carrots, and turnips, and onions, cut in thin stripes
an inch long; one slice of bacon, cut in thin stripes the same as the
vegetables, and the white of an egg boiled hard. Have the bacon and
vegetables cooked in water, strain and add to a pint of brown sauce.
This sauce will do for mutton cutlets.


SAUCE PIQUANTE.

Put two tea-spoonfuls of chopped onions, with one of common vinegar,
and one glass of stock; let the onion boil a few minutes; add a cupful
of brown sauce (this sauce must be as thick as cream); one tea-spoonful
of French mustard, a few chopped gherkins and mushrooms.




TO HAVE STOCK FOR SAUCES OR PLAIN ENTRÉES ALWAYS AT HAND.


Take the bones of roast joints, and the trimmings of cutlets, put them
in a sauce-pan with carrot, turnip, celery, and pepper-corns tied in a
piece of muslin; boil them slowly from four to five hours, then strain
into a basin till required for use.

Game stock can be made in the same way, any bones of roast game should
be kept by themselves, but you can take a portion of another stock to
help the game stock for sauces.

White stock is made with a knuckle of veal, or the bones of rabbit or
fowl, or any uncooked meat, with carrots, turnips, a bay leaf, a sprig
of thyme, two or three blades of parsley tied in a bunch; let it simmer
beside the fire for six hours, then pass it through a sieve; never let
the stock remain more than one day in warm weather in the same basin.
Pour it into a sauce-pan, and bring it to the boil each day; it will
sour if this is not done. A few basins should be kept for stocks, and
used for nothing else. The stock basins should be scalded and kept as
clean as dairy dishes. All cooks should be most careful to have these
stocks of different kinds, as pouring water on roasts, or joints, or
game, is not satisfactory; sauces are not good made of water. With care
there are always bones to be had for that purpose. All bones must be
cut very small.




JOINTS IN GENERAL.


How to divide a sheep is most useful to every one to know, and the
different names of the cuts of the sheep. Split a sheep straight down
the back; cut off the legs, and hang up in the larder. There is the
chump, that will roast or boil; then the loin chops. Cut off the flap
and roll it up, and make a force-meat stuffing, and have it braised.
The loin chops are best for broiling. Then raise the shoulder, and
there will be nine cutlets under the shoulder. Those are best for
dressed cutlets. Choose the mutton that is white in the colour, and
not too heavy, as when it is too fat there is great waste. Yet not too
lean, because it is a sign of poor mutton. All meat is tender if it
be kept for a few days before using. It is the most economical way to
get half a sheep from the butcher at once, if there is a large family,
because it is got so much cheaper.


TO ROAST A LEG OF MUTTON.

To every pound of mutton allow fifteen minutes to roast. The oven must
not be too hot when it first goes in, else it will burn on the outside,
and not cook in the heart. Dish on a hot dish. It is an improvement
to shake a little salt on the outside before pouring gravy over. To
make the gravy: pour all the grease off, and add a little stock to the
dripping pan, and pour over the roast.


BOILED LEG OF MUTTON.

Place a trimmed leg of mutton in a pot with plenty of water to cover,
and set it to boil. After skimming, add a handful of salt, two carrots
and turnips, one parsnip; and when the leg has boiled two hours and
a-half, it is done. Make a paper frill for the shank, and garnish with
vegetables.


SERPENT OF MUTTON.

Take a large neck of mutton; take away all the bones, and flatten
with a rolling-pin wet in cold water; make a stuffing of five ounces
of bread-crumbs, one ounce of suet, one egg, pepper and salt, a few
leaves of chopped parsley. Lay the meat out flat, place the force-meat
stuffing in the centre, and roll it up in the form of the letter S;
set it in a sauce-pan with one ounce of dripping, and brown. Dredge
the mutton with flour; put one quart of cold water on it, six drops
of Worcestershire sauce, a bay leaf, cut carrots and turnips, with a
vegetable cutting in fancy shapes, and boil in hot water in a separate
sauce-pan. When done, garnish round the serpent of mutton.


STEW OF RUMP BEEF.

Rump beef is the best part for stewing or braising. It should be of
a fine quality, a deep red colour, rich grained, and covered with
fat. When done, garnish it with some vegetables cut out with a round
vegetable-cutter the size of marbles, and braise the same as braised
leg of mutton.


ROAST CHICKEN.

Singe, and truss a chicken by cutting the legs off at the first joint.
Make an incision in the wings, and put the gizzard under the left
wing, and the liver under the right. Make a stuffing of three ounces
of bread-crumbs, two ounces of suet, a few leaves of chopped parsley,
pepper and salt, and one egg. Draw up the legs under the wings, and
stuff the chicken in the breast. Grease a buttered paper, and lay over
the baste frequently. Serve bread sauce in a boat. Time to cook, one
hour.


ROAST BEEF.

The English cut is the best for roasting. Choose one with a nice
under cut, and it is an economical way to take out the under cut and
hang it up in a cold larder till required for use, as it will make
very good steaks or entrées. Roast the beef in a moderately hot oven,
allowing fifteen minutes to the pound. If preferred, roast beef should
be under-done. Make a Yorkshire pudding in the following manner:--Put
three table-spoonfuls of flour into a basin, mix into a smooth batter
with milk, and add a pinch of salt, switch the yolk and whites of two
eggs separately to a stiff froth; pour into the batter. Bake under the
beef in a greased tin, when the beef is done. Dish a few minutes before
wanted, and sprinkle a little salt on the top of the beef. Pour the
grease off the pan, and put a tea-cupful of stock over the beef. Dish
the Yorkshire pudding round the beef, with horse-radish sauce or in a
separate dish.


BRAISED LEG OF MUTTON.

Put a small leg of mutton on the fire in a flat sauce-pan, with
plenty of room, and brown it slowly on both sides; then add one quart
of cold water, and let it simmer, one spoonful of browning, one of
Worcestershire sauce. Boil three ounces of macaroni in cold water, and
garnish round the mutton when about to serve.


TO BOIL A ROUND OF BEEF.

Put on a large pot with plenty of cold water, tie the meat up in a
nice round shape, and secure it tightly with skewers. It must never be
allowed to boil too fast, as that spoils salt meat. Garnish round the
base with nice-shaped carrots, and a cup of its liquor coloured with
browning over a few Brussels sprouts in four bunches round the dish.
Boil the beef fifteen minutes to the pound.


ROAST LOIN OF VEAL.

Take six pounds of the loin of veal; make an incision in the flap, and
place some veal stuffing in it; wrap it round the kidney fat so as to
secure it tightly. Envelop the loin in well-greased sheets of paper.
Roast before a moderate fire for two hours. Baste it very often. Dish
and pour some good brown gravy over it. Garnish with some nice fried
potatoes.


LOIN OF VEAL BRAISED.

Bone about four pounds of a loin, by taking away all the bones, and
flatten it out with a mallet wet in cold water. Make a veal stuffing
of six ounces of bread-crumbs, three ounces of suet, one egg, and a
few sweet herbs; lay this mixture into the centre of the veal, fold
it over in a roll, and tie it tightly. Put on a sauce-pan with three
slices of bacon, sliced carrot and turnip, and half an onion. Lay the
roll of veal on the top of the vegetables till browned. Cover with a
tight cover, and let it braise gently on a slow fire. About a cupful of
hot water may be added when the veal is browned. When cooked, dish it
up, and reduce the gravy it has been stewed in to a half cup. Time for
cooking, two hours. Garnish with tomatoes or glazed onions.


BOILED HAM.

Soak a ham in cold water, and, before putting it on to boil, scrape
all the grit and dirt off it. Boil from four to five hours, according
to size. When the skin easily peels off, it is done. Plunge it in cold
water, and remove the skin; make a glaze, and garnish in the following
manner:--Put one half-ounce of gelatine to soak in as much water as
will soak it to the thickness of cream. When it is melted, colour with
a few drops of browning, and glaze the ham. Make an icing with two
tea-spoonfuls of corn-flour, and one ounce fresh butter. Ornament with
a paper coronet. Garnish with bunches of parsley and paper frill. This
glaze will do for all kinds of meat requiring to be glazed.


BOILED LEG OF PORK.

Put a leg of pork on to boil. When it has boiled one hour, have two
carrots, half a turnip, and one parsnip tied in a cotton cloth, and
boil with pork for garnishing. Have half-a-pint of split pease soaked
over night. Tie the pease up loosely in a napkin, and boil in the same
pot with the pork. A leg of pork weighing eight pounds will take two
hours and a-half. Dish, and garnish with the vegetables. Serve the
pease pudding in a separate dish.


ROAST LEG OF PORK.

Make an incision between the skin and flesh; fill it with a stuffing of
bread-crumbs, one egg, flavoured with onion and sage; sew the crevice
with twine. Score the pork by cutting the rhind with a sharp knife in
strips, an inch apart. Roast for three hours; keep well basted. Serve
with apple sauce in a boat, and brown gravy.


PILLAU AU RIZ.

Boil a tea-cupful of rice in cold water for ten minutes, then take a
roast chicken from a previous day’s dinner; set it into a stew-pan
with the rice over, and one ounce of butter, half of an onion, a
piece of mace, pepper and salt, and a cup of stock. Simmer slowly for
three-quarters of an hour. Dish with the rice all over the chicken.


BOILED CHICKEN.

Truss a chicken by cutting the legs off at the second joint. Stick the
legs into the body, make a parsley sauce, and pour over the chicken.
Time to cook, one hour. Serve with streaky boiled bacon in a separate
dish. Garnish with a few nice-shaped vegetables.


ROAST GROUSE.

This bird must be roasted with great care, before a clear fire, for
twenty minutes. Some persons like all things well done, but the proper
way is to be under-done. Baste well, and dish on a buttered toast.
Serve with potato chips, bread sauce, and bread-crumbs.


ROAST HARE.

Hare should be kept for a week before roasting. Soak and wash in cold
water, and dry on a clean towel. Make a stuffing of bread-crumbs,
chopped parsley, one ounce of beef suet, part of the liver boiled and
finely chopped, pepper and salt, one egg and a little ketchup. Stuff
the hare; truss by placing the hind and fore legs flat against the
sides; set the head back to rest on the shoulders; stick a trussing
needle through the head of the hare, to keep back the head; baste with
butter and sweet milk. Cook for two hours; serve with a gravy and red
currant jelly.


ROAST RABBIT

Is cooked in the same manner as roast hare.


TO BOIL RABBITS WHOLE.

Truss same as a roast hare; boil gently for one hour and a-half;
serve with onion sauce. If there is a pair of rabbits, dish them in a
reversed way, and pour the onion sauce over.


FRIGEDEL OF RABBIT.

Pick the meat from the legs of the rabbits that the fillets have been
taken from; chop fine with a little parsley, a small onion, pepper, and
salt. Soak two slices of bread in sweet milk; press out the milk; and
add to the minced rabbit one egg, and form into an oval shape and fry
for fifteen minutes a light-brown colour. Serve with a brown sauce with
capers in it.


BEEFSTEAK PIE.

One pound of the best beefsteak beaten and sprinkled with pepper and
salt. Cut in square pieces, dredge with flour and roll up in neat
rolls, with a little chopped onions. Place at the bottom of the dish
two sheep’s kidneys, cut in slices, and two hard-boiled eggs laid
through the pie, and cover with puff paste. A few drops of sauce and
two glasses of stock may be added to the pie.


ROAST PARTRIDGES.

Pick and draw and clean these birds the same as fowls. Do not cut off
the heads; twist the neck round the wing; bring the head to the breast.
The legs and wings may be trussed the same as a fowl’s. The feet are
left on and crossed one over the other. Baste well with butter before a
clear fire. A partridge will take from twenty minutes to half-an-hour,
and a pheasant three-quarters of an hour. Serve on toasted bread, with
gravy and bread sauce.

Blackcock should be served in the same way.


RABBIT PIE.

Cut up a rabbit into joints, each leg in two, the back in three pieces,
the breast in two pieces. Pepper and salt, dust with flour; boil two
eggs hard, and cut them in quarters, cut a small onion in small pieces;
place some onions at the bottom of the dish, then a layer of rabbit and
some slices of bacon and hard-boiled eggs. Fill the dish with rabbit,
add a few drops of Worcestershire sauce, two glasses of stock or water.
Cover with American paste.




SAUCES FOR JOINTS.


HORSE-RADISH SAUCE FOR ROAST BEEF.

Grate one stick of horse-radish; put it on to boil with one glass of
cream, one glass of milk, pepper and salt, and stew for ten minutes.
Serve in a boat with roast beef.


CAPER SAUCE FOR BOILED MUTTON.

Take one breakfast-cupful of the liquor the mutton has been boiled in.
Wet with cold water one spoonful of flour, and stir into the boiling
liquor, one spoonful of capers and a few drops of the vinegar. Pour
over the mutton or serve in a boat.


ROAST LEG OF MUTTON

Is served with brown sauce over it, not water, for it takes the juice
away. Serve with red currant jelly.


ONION SAUCE FOR ROAST SHOULDER OF MUTTON.

Peel and slice two onions and stew till tender. Strain them, place
half-an-ounce of butter in a sauce-pan, add one half-ounce of flour,
pepper and salt, and one cup of milk. Stir over the fire till it boils;
add the onions, and serve in a boat.


APPLE SAUCE FOR ROAST PORK.

Take a nice soft cooking apple, cut into slices, and place in a
stew-pan with a glass of water and a piece of butter the size of a
marble. Cover and stew till tender; pass through a pointed strainer;
sweeten; heat in pan, and serve hot.


BREAD SAUCE FOR ROAST CHICKEN.

Peel one small onion, and put it into a sauce-pan, with a tea-cupful of
milk. Grate one slice of bread and put it into the milk; let it boil;
add a little cream, half-an-ounce of fresh butter, pepper and salt, and
serve with roast chicken.


PARSLEY SAUCE FOR BOILED CHICKENS.

Chop some fresh leaves of parsley very fine, place two ounces of butter
in a stew-pan with two ounces of flour, and melt. Add one cup of liquor
from boilings of chicken; add one cup of milk; stir in the parsley; dry
the ashet with the chickens on it, and pour the sauce over the chicken.
Garnish chickens with rolls of bacon.


MINT SAUCE FOR ROAST LAMB.

One glass of vinegar, half-a-glass of water, one ounce of brown sugar,
chop fine one half-spoonful of fresh mint, and serve in a boat.


ENTRÉE SAUCE À LA TARTE.

Place half-an-ounce of butter in a sauce-pan with half an onion minced
fine, six drops of Worcestershire sauce, six drops of Harvey, a few
drops of chili vinegar, a breakfast-cupful of good brown sauce, stirred
into the sauce-pan, and boil all together for a few minutes.




PUDDINGS.


STRAWBERRY TOASTS.

Cut two slices of bread in strips an inch in length, switch two eggs
into a cup of milk, sweeten and flavour with vanilla, soak the slices
of bread in it for ten minutes, fry them in fresh butter, dish them,
lay some strawberries on one half, and place two strips together, then
set in a hot oven for five minutes. Dish in the form of a lattice-work
on a folded napkin. Sprinkle with white sugar, and serve hot.


CHOCOLATE PUDDING.

Switch yolks and whites of five eggs for five minutes both together;
then add one pint of milk, one ounce of sugar, and one ounce of grated
chocolate. Bake in small cups set in hot water for twenty minutes. Try
if cooked in the centre with a knife.


HOLLANDAISE PUDDING.

Break four sponge cakes into crumbs, three macaronis, three water
biscuits, one slice of stale bread; crumble all together. Then two
ounces of dried cherries, one ounce of almonds, one glass of sherry,
one pint of milk poured over three eggs, whites and yolks beaten
separate. Add, last of all, butter, and ornament in a basin with green
angelica. Steam for three-quarters of an hour. Try with a knife to see
if ready. Serve with German sauce round the base.


BASKET PUDDING.

Take three ounces of butter, three ounces of sugar, one egg rubbed to
a cream, a tea-cupful of milk, three-quarters of a pound of flour,
two tea-spoonfuls of baking-powder mixed with flour; add the milk to
the beaten eggs, then the flour; flavour with vanilla, and bake in
small timbale moulds. Empty the centre by cutting off the top. Roll
the outside in red currant jelly, then in fine crumbs of almonds. Fill
the centre with switched cream and garnish with strawberries. Bring a
handle of green angelica across the top.


ICE CREAM.

Take a quart of cream and flavour with any kind of flavouring, such as
strawberry, vanilla. Whatever is chosen, sweeten it much sweeter than
for ordinary use, as it loses in freezing. Set a small pail with the
cream in it into a larger vessel. Build broken ice and salt round it;
and turn for half-an-hour.


MARBLE PUDDING.

Put six penny packets of gelatine to soak in a cup of milk. When
soaked, add it to a pint of boiling milk, two ounces of sugar, and
stir over the fire till all is dissolved. Make five parts of the milk
that has the gelatine in it; flavour each with different flavourings
and different colours. Colour one yellow with yolk of egg, leave one
white, one brown with coffee, one red with cochineal, one green with
a few drops of spinach juice; pour the mixtures into a round basin in
reversible manner; let the mixture be half cooled before mixing; when
cold, turn out and garnish with different shades of jelly.


PLUM PUDDING.

Take one pound of flour, half-a-pound bread-crumbs, three-quarter
pound of chopped suet, one pound currants, one pound raisins, two
ounces of lemon-peel, half-pound of sugar, one nutmeg, a penny-worth of
spice, a few drops of vanilla, and this will take the place of brandy;
three eggs and two cups of milk. Steam for two hours and a-half. Wash
and clean the fruit on a clean towel, and dry in the oven. Chop the
lemon-peel and mix with the fruit; and all the spice with the flour.
Lastly, stir in the milk, and switch the yolks and whites of egg stiff.
Steam in a greased mould or cloth that has been rung out of hot water,
greased and buttered. Lay a plate at the bottom to prevent the pudding
sticking to the pot. When water is to be added it must be boiling
water. Boil for three hours.


COMPOTE OF RICE AND APPLES.

Place six apples in a stew-pan with one pint of water, one lemon, ten
ounces of sugar, and a few drops of cochineal, and stew till tender
without breaking. Soak three ounces of rice in water for one hour,
drain off the water, and boil the rice in a pint of milk till very
soft. Sweeten with one ounce of sugar. Dish the rice in the centre of
a glass dish. Build the apples round; have the syrup reduced, and pour
over the apples.


STEAMED CABINET PUDDING.

Butter a nice-shaped mould, and set it with dried cherries and angelica
stock round the bottom and sides. Cut the crust from two slices of
bread, and cut the bread in small dice pieces. Then have a quarter of a
pound of stale sponge cake, and four macaronis crumbled, three ounces
of currants, and three ounces of raisins, and one ounce of lemon-peel.
Switch three eggs in a pint of milk and one glass of wine; pour over
pudding, and steam.


CROQUETS AU CONFITURE.

Place three ounces of rice in a stew-pan, and cook till it is very
soft, and all the milk boiled off. Switch two eggs with the rice spread
out on a plate to cool; then form into round balls. Make a hole through
the middle, and fill with jam; close it up, and roll the ball in egg
and then in bread-crumbs, and fry in hot lard. Dish in a pyramid on a
folded napkin, and sprinkle sifted sugar over it. Serve hot.


LEMON PUDDING.

Line an ashet with puff paste, place four ounces of butter, the yolks
of four eggs, the juice of one lemon, three tea-spoonfuls of corn-flour
wet with cold water, two ounces of sugar. Mix all together, and stir in
a jug over hot water on the fire till it assumes the appearance of a
custard. Bake the crust and pour the lemon mixture into it, switch the
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, with two ounces of sifted sugar,
and place on top of pudding. Place for a minute in the oven, and serve
hot.


VANILLA CREAM.

Soak half a sixpenny packet of gelatine in half a tea-cupful of milk,
for half-an-hour; set it into a pan of warm water till it melts, then
switch one breakfast-cupful of cream till stiff; then let the gelatine
be cold, but so as it will run from the cup into the cream. Sweeten
with one ounce of sugar and a few drops of vanilla; rinse a mould out
with cold water, and set the cream for twelve hours; plunge the mould
in hot water, and turn out on a glass dish, and garnish with angelica
and dried cherries.


WINE JELLY.

Take a sixpenny packet of gelatine, soak in one cupful of cold water
for an hour; then add four cups more of water, four ounces of sugar,
the rhind of one lemon and the juice of two, one stick of cinnamon, the
whites of three eggs and shells, and switch to a stiff froth. Switch
all together in a copper pan over the fire till it boils. Draw to the
side to simmer gently for fifteen minutes. The pan must not be shaken;
pour through a jelly bag. Rinse out a mould with cold water before
pouring in the jelly. One or two glasses of wine may be added.


ŒUF À LA NEIGE.

Place in a sauce-pan one pint of milk and bring to the boil; have three
yolks of eggs beaten with three tea-spoonfuls of corn-flour and two
table-spoonfuls of cold milk; blend all together with back of wooden
spoon; give it one boil, and flavour with essence of almond. When cold,
turn into a glass dish, switch the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add
an ounce of sugar, and garnish the top by dropping it in spoonfuls on
the top. Part may be coloured with cochineal, place some tiny pieces of
red currant jelly on the top of each piece.


TRIFLE.

Soak four penny sponge cakes in a glass of sherry for half-an-hour; cut
each sponge cake into four pieces, lay the four pieces at the bottom
of a glass dish; spread a layer of strawberry jam; then have a thin
custard made with two eggs and two tea-spoonfuls of corn-flour and a
breakfast-cupful of milk. Let it get cold, and pour over the sponge
cake and jam. Sprinkle with chopped almonds and dried cherries. Lay
sponge cake and jam in alternated layers, and macaronis crumbled, till
all is used up. Switch a tea-cupful of cream, and lay on the top, and
garnish with pink sugar, angelica, and dried cherries.


CARAMEL PUDDING.

Break five eggs, yolks and whites; switch them together; add
half-an-ounce of sweet almonds, half-an-ounce of orange peel minced
fine, one and a-half ounces of soft sugar, a large breakfast-cupful of
milk. Stir the eggs, almonds, sugar, and lemon-peel into milk. Grease a
pint basin, and set it with dried cherries; steam for one hour slowly.
Make a sauce in the following way:--Place one ounce of sugar in a pan,
brown it to the colour of treacle, and pour over two glasses of water;
boil for ten minutes. Serve round pudding.




PUDDING SAUCES.


BRANDY SAUCE.

Take half-an-ounce of butter, half-an-ounce of flour, one ounce of
sugar; melt together; add a tea-cupful of boiling water gradually,
keeping beating all the time. When it boils, add a glass of brandy; it
must not boil afterwards, as liquors lose strength in boiling.


WINE SAUCE.

Take two table-spoonfuls of corn-flour, three ounces of sugar, an ounce
of butter, and a pint of water; stir over the fire till it boils; add
a glass of wine and a grated nutmeg. The juice of fresh fruit, such as
strawberry, raspberry, peaches, or the juice from preserved fruit, when
fresh fruit cannot be procured, may be used instead of wine.


GERMAN SAUCE.

Set a stew-pan on the fire with a pint of boiling water; set a smaller
one in it, and break in the yolks of two eggs, one ounce of sugar, a
glass of sherry, juice of half a lemon, half-an-ounce of butter, and a
pinch of salt. This sauce must be kept switched over a moderate heat
till it assumes the appearance of a switched cream. Pour over steamed
puddings.


CUSTARD SAUCE.

Place one pint of milk on the fire till it gets hot, on the point of
boiling. Then take the yolks of two eggs, mix smooth with a little cold
milk, and two tea-spoonfuls of corn-flour, and stir into the boiling
milk. A little cream is an improvement to this sauce, and a few drops
of vanilla.




SAVOURY DISHES.


CURRIED EGGS.

Boil four eggs hard, plunge them into cold water, skin and cut them
in slices; place a half-ounce of butter in a sauce-pan, and one
tea-spoonful of curry; stir the butter and curry over the fire, and
slice one onion. Fry a light-brown. Stir in gently a half-pint of
gravy, and stew slowly. Add one tea-spoonful of corn-flour, mixed with
half-a-cup of cream. Boil a few minutes, and pour over the eggs. Serve
hot.


SAVOURY OMELET.

Switch three eggs for five minutes, yolk and white separate; then
have a little chopped parsley, a tiny piece of onion which has been
previously boiled, pepper and salt, with the eggs. Have an omelet-pan
hot with quarter of an ounce of fresh butter; fry lightly on one side,
hold before the fire or place in a hot oven for a few minutes. Fold
over and serve.


POACHED EGGS.

Have a flat sauce-pan with one quart of water boiling; put in a
tea-spoonful of salt, and four drops of vinegar. Break the eggs into a
cup, one by one; drop them into the pan with a table-spoon. See that
the water is poured over the eggs. When the white is set over the egg
it is ready. Have a round slice of toast buttered; place the eggs on it.


EGGS À LA MAÎTRE D’HOTÊL.

Boil six eggs hard, and cut them in halves. Dish them in a circle.
Pour over them a sauce made as follows:--Place one ounce of butter in
a sauce-pan, with half-an-ounce of flour, one tea-cupful of milk. Stir
gradually till it thickens. Add a little cream and white pepper, and a
squeeze of a lemon.


KIDNEY OMELET.

Mince fine two sheep kidneys; place in a stew-pan, with a small piece
of butter, pepper and salt, a few chopped parsley leaves, a few drops
of Worcestershire sauce and a glass of stock. Stew gently for twenty
minutes. Prepare the omelet as follows:--Separate the yolk and whites
of four eggs, switch the whites to a stiff froth, place the whites and
yolks together, pepper and salt. Have the omelet-pan hot, with a little
fresh butter; pour in the eggs; cook for three minutes gently, not
too fast. Hold the pan before the fire to brown; then lay the stewed
kidneys in the centre.


HAM OMELET

Is prepared in the same way as kidney omelet. Any kind of fine minced
meat, minced chickens, and ham can be used in the same way for
breakfasts.


STUFFED EGGS.

Take four eggs and cut them in halves, length ways; take out the
yolks and rub them to a paste; add one spoonful of cream, a few
leaves of parsley chopped fine, pepper and salt, and a half-ounce of
bread-crumbs; place this mixture in the centre of the egg, in the shape
of the yolk of egg. Take another and switch it, and egg and bread-crumb
the savoury eggs on the outside. Fry in hot butter, and serve with
fried parsley garnish.


KIDNEYS AND TOAST.

Mince fine four kidneys, place them in a sauce-pan with a glass of
stock, a few drops of Harvey or Worcestershire sauce, pepper and salt,
and a little chopped parsley; stew slowly. Have six round pieces of
toast buttered; build the mince on it. Have the yolk of a hard-boiled
egg in a pointed strainer, a pinch of pepper and salt, and rub it
through the point of a strainer on the top of the toast for a garnish.
A few leaves of parsley may be laid round for a garnish.


CHEESE BISCUITS.

Take half-a-pound of flour, half a pound of butter, half a pound of
cheese; rub these three one way into crumbs, with a pinch of cayenne
pepper. Wet a little, and knead to a stiff dough. Bake on buttered
paper in a hot oven.


LOBSTER CROQUETS.

Take the flesh of the lobster, take all the meat out of the shell, and
chop in small pieces; place half an ounce of butter in a sauce-pan,
half-ounce flour, and half a tea-cupful of milk; stir over the fire
till it thickens, then add the flesh of the lobster, the yolks of two
eggs, and a pinch of cayenne; turn the croquet out on a plate to cool;
form the mixture into round balls; dip in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry
a light-brown colour.


CAULIFLOWER À GRATIN.

Take a nice head of cauliflower, boil for fifteen minutes, place in a
dish that will stand the fire, and pour over it a white sauce made of
one spoonful of flour moistened in cold milk, and stirred into a cupful
of boiling milk, pepper and salt. Pour over the cauliflower. Grate
three ounces of cheese. On the top place little pieces of butter, and
cook a light-brown colour.


CHEESE SOUFFLÉE.

Take nine table-spoonfuls of flour, stir in gently a pint of milk
to make the batter as thick as cream; strain it through a pointed
strainer, to prevent being lumpy. Have four ounces of grated cheese,
a pinch of cayenne pepper, and salt. Switch the yolks and whites of
three eggs separate for five minutes. Stir in the last thing, into the
batter; bake in a round buttered dish, in a hot oven, half-an-hour
before required, as soufflées do not do well to be baked too soon.




VEGETABLES.


POTATO CHIPS.

To make potato chips, get some nice round potatoes, and slice them into
thin slices in a basin, with salt and water, for one hour; then dry on
a clean towel, and fry in hot lard a light-brown colour.


BRUSSELS SPROUTS.

Put on to boil in boiling water, with a pinch of salt and soda, and
boil for twenty minutes; dish, and dry on a clean towel. Return to
the sauce-pan, and put half-an-ounce of butter, and shake them while
heating to prevent them burning.


GREEN PEASE.

Green peas should be put on to boil in boiling water and salt. The time
for boiling depends on the age; strain, and place a piece of butter,
pepper and salt, with a few leaves of mint.


ASPARAGUS WITH WHITE SAUCE.

Tie into a bundle the asparagus, after washing the stalks clean. Keep
all the heads the one way, put the asparagus on to cook in boiling
water, and salt; boil for twenty minutes. Dish them on square pieces of
buttered toast; pour a white sauce over.


VEGETABLE MARROW.

Cut the vegetable marrow into eight pieces, boil in some white stock
until tender. Make a little sauce with a pat of butter, a little juice
of lemon, and a grating of nutmeg. Pour over the vegetable marrow, and
serve.


TO BOIL POTATOES.

Great care should be taken in boiling potatoes. This is a vegetable
that is often neglected. When the potatoes boil, see that they do not
boil too fast. A handful of salt should be put into the water. Try with
a fork to see if ready. They must not boil too soft. Drain and shake
over the fire, and place a napkin over them and steam. Boil a small bit
of mint with them, when new.




CAKES, AND ICINGS FOR CAKES.


POUND CAKES.

Take one pound of butter, one pound of sugar, eight eggs, a few drops
of lemon. Place the butter in a basin, and warm it in cold weather
before the fire. Then beat with the hand. Have the eight eggs broken in
a basin, and drop one at a time till the eight are added. Have a tin
hoop lined with buttered paper; add one pound of sifted flour. Currants
or raisins or lemon-peel can be added. Bake for one hour and a-quarter,
in not too hot an oven.


CREAM CAKE.

Take three ounces of butter, three ounces of sugar, one egg, three
glasses of milk, and a tea-spoonful of cinnamon; rub the butter and
sugar to a cream, then add the egg and milk. Put two tea-spoonfuls
of baking-powder with half-a-pound of flour, and knead it to a stiff
dough. If this quantity of flour seems too soft, take a little more,
as there is great difference in the strength of flour, and some flour
takes more moisture in baking. Cooks must therefore be guided by its
appearance. Roll the dough into a round cake; half cut through the
centre with a smaller cutter. Bake for twenty minutes. When cooked,
fill the centre with switched cream, and ice the top of it the same as
ordinary cakes.


SPONGE CAKE.

Break three eggs into a copper pan; take the weight of three eggs of
sifted sugar, and switch over a warm place, such as a pan of hot water,
or over the fire, till the eggs are warmed. Then remove from the heat,
and switch till cold, and the eggs assume the appearance of a thick
cream. Then mix in very lightly the weight of three eggs of flour,
flavour with vanilla, or almonds, or lemon, and bake in small sponge
cake tins for ten minutes in a hot oven.


ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR CAKE.

Take one cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three eggs, and four cups
of flour. Rub the butter and sugar to a cream; add the three eggs, one
at a time; one cup of milk; mix two tea-spoonfuls of baking-powder
with the flour, and stir into butter and sugar. Bake for one hour in a
moderate oven.


GOLD CAKE.

Separate the yolks and whites of six eggs. For the gold cake, take
the yolks of six eggs and beat to a cream, with six ounces of butter,
six ounces of sugar, the juice of half a lemon, and a tea-cupful of
milk. Mix butter, sugar, yolk of eggs, lemon, and milk all together,
with three-quarters of a pound of flour and two tea-spoonfuls of
baking-powder. Mix with flour, and add to the creamed sugar and butter.


SILVER CAKE.

This cake is made the same as the above, the only difference being to
switch the whites to a stiff froth. Use the same proportions. Butter
two tins or one large one, and lay the cake in alternated, so that when
it is cut it will be nicely mixed, one yellow and one white. Serve cut
in a cake basket.


CHEESE CAKES.

Place a pint of milk on the fire to get hot, and make a curd by putting
a few drops of rennet in it; press the whey from the curd, mix three
eggs with the curd, three ratafia biscuits, a glass of cream, two
ounces of sugar, and a few drops of lemon. Press the curd in a napkin
to absorb the moisture. Pound the above mixture in a mortar. Line
half-a-dozen tartlet pans with puff paste, fill the tartlet pans with
the cheese custard, and place a couple of stripes of candied peel on
the top of each.


GINGER BREAD.

Mix half-a-pound of butter, and half-a-pound of soft sugar,
half-a-pound of treacle, with a wooden spoon, five eggs, yolks and
whites switched separately; a tea-cupful of sour milk, one tea-spoonful
of baking soda, one ounce of ginger, one pound and a-half of flour, a
drop of browning to make it dark, and two ounces of candied peel. Bake
in not too hot an oven.


LEMON CAKES.

Take four ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar, the juice of a lemon,
and half the rhind; rub on to the sugar the yolk of two eggs, one glass
of warm milk; knead stiff dough, and roll out, and cut with fancy
cutter any shape preferred.


JOHNNIE CAKE.

Take two cups of India meal, one cup of flour, mix three tea-spoonfuls
of baking-powder, three spoonfuls of sugar, a half-cup of melted
butter, two eggs. Add milk enough to make this a thick batter, and bake
for half-an-hour in a square flat pan; cut in square pieces; it is a
very nice cake for lunch.


GERMAN TEA CAKE.

Take three ounces of butter, three ounces of sugar, rubbed to a cream,
one egg, yolk and white switched; add to the butter and sugar twelve
ounces of flour, mix with the flour half-a-pound of currants, three
tea-spoonfuls of baking-powder, and a tea-spoonful of cinnamon, one
ounce lemon-peel, add one cup of milk to the butter and sugar; mix
the flour, currants, cinnamon, and peel, all together, and bake for
three-quarters of an hour in a hot oven. If the cakes are burning, lay
a paper over to prevent this. Bake till nothing sticks to the straw
when pierced.


QUAKER’S CAKES.

Take half-a-pound of sifted sugar, the yolks and whites of seven eggs
beaten separately, the juice of one lemon, and a half-pound of almonds
beaten fine with rose water. Beat the whites and yolks separately,
then mix them with the other ingredients, except the flour. Beat them
together half-an-hour, then shake in the flour, and put the cakes in
the oven.


DESSERT BISCUITS.

Rub one pound of butter, one pound of sugar, and five eggs to a cream;
add one tea-cupful of milk, a few drops of essence of lemon; knead to a
stiff dough; cut in rings, and leaves, and heart; when done, ornament
with icing sugar in the usual way.


LOAF CAKE.

Take the size of a walnut of German yeast dissolved in a pint of
warm milk, and a pinch of salt; stir as much flour in as will make a
thick sponge. Set it to raise till it gets light and throws up little
bubbles; then take two pounds of flour and make a hole in the centre,
and pour in the sponge. Add three-quarters of a pound of butter,
half-a-pound of soft sugar, four eggs, two ounces of lemon-peel,
three-quarters of a pound of currants, three-quarters of a pound of
raisins, and knead this all together, and set to raise for another
hour; then, when light, bake for one hour in a moderate oven.


DOUGH NUTS.

Take three ounces of butter, three ounces of soft sugar, rubbed to a
cream, one egg, a drop of vanilla, and one cup of milk, a pound and a
half of flour with three tea-spoonfuls of baking-powder. Knead into a
stiff dough, cut with a round cutter, cut a hole in the centre with a
smaller cutter, and fry in hot lard.


FRENCH WAFFLES.

Make a batter of nine table-spoonfuls of flour, in one pint of milk,
rubbed smoothly with the back of a wooden spoon; switch up three eggs,
and pour into the batter two ounces of melted butter, quarter of a
pound of sugar, one tea-spoonful of baking-powder; grease waffle irons,
and bake over a clear fire; sift over with white sugar, and serve hot.


ICES FOR CAKES.

Take half-a-pound of icing sugar to two whites of eggs; switch the
whites to a stiff froth, stiff enough to lift on a knife; then add the
sugar, and beat well up with the knife. Then pass through an icing-bag,
on whatever is to be iced; ornament any fancy shape that is desired.




THE DIFFERENT KINDS OF PASTE.


PASTE NO. 1.--PUFF PASTE.

Wet four ounces of flour with cold water to a dough, as stiff as for a
breakfast roll; roll out and lay four ounces of fresh butter in pieces
on the paste; fold over and roll out four times, and set away to raise
in a cold place for three hours. Give the paste three turns more, and
it is ready for use. Care must be taken not to dust too much flour on;
rolling it at a cold slab or slate, with hands washed in cold water and
salt, is an improvement to this paste. A very hot oven is needed to
cook it. Do not allow the oven door to be opened, to let the draught
in, as this is bad for it.


PASTE NO. 2.--SHORT CRUST.

Take half-a-pound of butter, one pound of flour, one egg, and a glass
of milk, and two ounces of sugar; rub the butter and flour to crumbs,
then add the egg and a glass of milk; knead to a stiff dough, and bake
in a moderate oven; time, half-an-hour.


PASTE NO. 3.--PLAIN AMERICAN CRUST.

Take one pound of flour, two tea-spoonfuls of baking-powder, six ounces
of butter, rubbed to crumbs by rubbing it the one way; a pinch of salt
if for a meat dish, and for a sweet dish a spoonful of sugar. Make a
hole in the centre, and draw the flour all in, wet with cold water to
the stiffness of soda scones; bake in a moderate oven.


PASTE NO. 4.--HARD PASTE FOR RAISED PIES.

Put one pound of flour on to a slab, rub in three ounces of clarified
fat, and a pinch of salt; wet with hot water, not very soft, and knead
for half-an-hour to get it stiff. This paste will do for raised pies or
mutton pies.


PASTE NO. 5.--SUET CRUST.

Mince fine eight ounces of suet, and mix it into one pound of flour
and a pinch of salt. This paste must not be worked much, and is used
for steamed or boiled crust. Boiled crust requires to boil from twenty
minutes to two hours, depending on what size is boiling. This crust
could be baked as well as steamed.


A HINT ON THE HEAT OF THE OVEN.

For baking paste, hold your hand in the oven a quarter of a minute;
if the hand cannot be held any longer, it is hot enough; if the hand
cannot be held so long, it will be too hot. Place some white paper over
whatever is baking, and this will keep it from burning.


  EDINBURGH
  PRINTED BY LORIMER AND GILLIES,
  31 ST. ANDREW SQUARE.




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:


  Italicized text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

  Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

  Inconsistencies in hyphenation have been standardized.

  Archaic or variant spelling has been retained.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HIGH-CLASS COOKERY MADE
EASY ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
